DDS has developed it's own Data Management access methods and support software  
to provide increased efficiency and functionality over that which is available  
from the standard data management routines.  The main features of DDS Data      
Management are the two access methods DADDS (Direct Access DDS) and ISDDS       
(Indexed Sequential DDS), and DATAMGR, the interface program that the programmer
calls to gain access to these facilities.                                       
                                                                                
DDS Data Management is concerned with the use of and management of disk storage.
The charactistics of disk storage are such as to allow rapid access to data     
stored anywhere in a given file, and the access methods are designed to take    
advantage of this capability.  The access methods can also provide for efficient
sequential access to the disk records, and for access to a given record based on
a Key, an arbitrary data string associated with the record.                     
                                                                                
DADDS is the access method that provides for direct access to any record in the 
file by address.  The records can be fixed or variable length.  New records are 
added at the end of the file, at the end of the last track currently used if    
they will fit, or else at the begining of the next track.  Records may be read  
or written in any order, and the record of interest is specified by a four byte 
address.  The address is composed of three parts, a two byte track number, a one
byte block number, and a one byte record number.  The address is written in hex 
as TTTTBBRR.  If the records are not blocked, then RR is 00.  DADDS will block  
and deblock records for the user, or the whole block of a blocked file can be   
read or written by setting RR to 00.                                            
                                                                                
ISDDS is the access method that provides access to records based on a Key.  A   
Key is any sequence of bytes, but is usually composed of data from the record.  
The length of the Key is determined by the file definition, as is the length of 
the record.  The records are stored in the file in Key sequence, and an index is
automatically maintained based on the Key.  The index allows direct access to   
any record in the file.  ISDDS files may be fixed or variable length.  Key      
compression is used to minimise the size of the index.                          
                                                                                
Most DDS files are IS/DA files.  An IS/DA file is actually two files; a an ISDDS
index file (this is sometimes called the directory), and a DADDS data file.  The
ISDDS file stores the keys to the data records; the data in the ISDDS record is 
the Disk Address of the data record in the DADDS file.  The linkage between the 
two files is maintained automatically by Datamanager.                           
                                                                                
The Datamanager module provides several services to the programmer.  It makes   
the two parts of an IS/DA pair appear to be one file.  It communicates with     
FACPAK to manage read-only files, recovery, record locking, and other system    
validation functions.  It also handles many special or exception conditions     
related to specific files or systems.  Application programs almost always call  
Datamanager to access DDS files, only FACPAK and other system functions call the
ISDDS or DADDS access methods directly.                                         
                                                                                
