A module that takes the freeform city/state/zip as a string of data             
and separates it into a city, a state code (2 digit postal), and a zip          
code (5 or 9 bytes).                                                            
                                                                                
The parms that must be passed are:                                              
                                                                                
Parm 1 - The length and address of the sending field.                           
Parm 2 - The length and address of the field to receive the city.               
Parm 3 - The address of a two position state code receiving field.              
Parm 4 - The length of your zip code and the receiving field address.           
                                                                                
The return codes (in parm 1) are:                                               
                                                                                
0 - Congratulations, all is as it should be.                                    
1 - An unfathomable error, fields may contain garbage, don't use them.          
2 - The state code you passed did not match the zip code.  In this case         
    ADSCAN returns the state code that matches the zip code.  This              
    would be the case if you passed the state spelled out with the cor-         
    rect zip code.  A good way to convert to postal codes.                      
3 - ADSCAN couldn't find anything that resembled the 5 or 9 digit zip           
    code you claimed you sent.                                                  
                                                                                
Examples:                                                                       
                                                                                
Pass 'NEW YORK,  NY 10011'                                                      
Get back in city field 'NEW YORK'                                               
         in state code field 'NY'                                               
         in zip code field '10011'                                              
         cond code = 0                                                          
                                                                                
Pass 'NEW YORK, NEW YORK  10011'                                                
Get back in city field 'NEW YORK'                                               
         in state code field 'NY'                                               
         in zip code field '10011'                                              
         cond code = 2                                                          
                                                                                
