         TITLE 'DDMAINT - DATA DICTIONARY MAINTENANCE UTILITY'                  
                                                                                
                                                                                
A) Introduction                                                                 
---------------                                                                 
                                                                                
     DDMAINT is an offline utility program with which entries in the            
Data Dictionary source files can be maintained. Entries are added and           
replaced by merging in data from an input work file referred to as DDIN         
and defined by the user as a standard or partitioned sequential data            
set. The merged data is held on temporary program work files from which         
the original Data Dictionary files can be replaced if requested as an           
option. A selection by language or text filter of these merged entries          
is then split off into an output work file referred to as DDOUT and             
defined as for DDIN. The DDIN and DDOUT work files can then be                  
manipulated by the user, e.g. transfer to another system and edit.              
                                                                                
     Files DDIN and DDOUT are defined to be 'DUMMIES' by default.               
These can be overridden by naming the files in the user's JCL run file.         
If DDIN is not defined no merge process occurs and likewise if DDOUT            
is not defined no split and write to output process occurs. Entries             
in any DDIN file which is specified should follow standard syntax rules         
for the Data Dictionary, (see DCDDGEN.). They can include multiple              
languages and be both Terms and Notes.                                          
                                                                                
     The existing Data dictionary source files on the Pan library are           
named as a 'TERMS' file containing Terms entries for a certain system           
and a 'NOTES' file containing Notes entries for that system. The merged         
and rebuilt files can be optionally written back to the PAN library.            
For this to occur the names of the new PAN books should be specified            
with special JCL input control cards. Absence of these cards will               
result in no file replacement. Otherwise the new files can either               
take the name of the existing Data Dictionary files which are then              
updated, or a new book name can be specified which is then added                
to the PAN library.                                                             
                                                                                
     The output includes the merged and split entries in DDOUT and              
a run report listing on the standard ouput file which indicates                 
any error condition, which entries were added and warns of any entries          
replaced.                                                                       
                                                                                
     The program is run by submitting JCL catalogued procedure DDMAINT          
and run options are controlled by the following card data input lines.          
                                                                                
                                                                                
B) JCL CARD DATA INPUT.                                                         
-----------------------                                                         
                                                                                
1)   TERMS=<Name of existing data dict pan book of Term entries>                
         e.g.  TERMS=MEDDNEW  Name should exist and is optional                 
                                                                                
2)   NOTES=<Name of existing data dict pan book of Note entries>                
         e.g.  NOTES=MEDDNOTES  Name should exist and is optional.              
                                                                                
3)   NEWTERMS=<Name of replacement data dict pan book for Term entries>         
         e.g.  NEWTERMS=MEDDNEW  Name is optional                               
         If same as TERMS then file is replaced, else new file added.           
                                                                                
4)   NEWNOTES=<Name of replacement data dict pan book for Note entries>         
         e.g.  NEWNOTES=MEDDNOTES  Name is optional.                            
         If same as NOTES then file is replaced, else new file added.           
                                                                                
5)   LANG=<List of languages for DDOUT split filter>                            
         e.g.  LANG=EG  only English and German                                 
         Use initial letter as defined in system LANGTAB.                       
         Default all languages.                                                 
                                                                                
5)   FILTER=<String for DDOUT split filter>                                     
         e.g.  FILTER=N   only entries starting with 'N'                        
         or    FILTER=*ER only entries containing 'er'                          
                                                                                
                                                                                
C) OUTPUT.                                                                      
----------                                                                      
                                                                                
1)   Report listing generated on standard printer output file, e.g.             
     accesible by 'flasher' in TSO. Report indicates any error                  
     condition, which entries were added and warns of any entries               
     replaced  (Search for '*** WARNING'.)                                      
                                                                                
2)   DDOUT selection of merged entries based on given language                  
     and text filters.                                                          
                                                                                
D) Notes.                                                                       
---------                                                                       
                                                                                
1)   Terms entries when merged, replace entries of the same equate              
     number and language in the Data Dictionary Terms file.                     
     Notes entries when merged are added to any existing notes for              
     that equate number in the Data Dictionary Notes file.                      
                                                                                
