<wpage>                                                                         
                            CABLE DEMOGRAPHICS                                  
                            ------------------                                  
Nielsen reports the follwing data on tape:                                      
                                                                                
      Cable coverage area HUT                                                   
      Cable coverage area RATING                                                
                     U.S. RATING                                                
      Cable coverage area HOMES                                                 
      Cable coverage area SHARE                                                 
      Cable coverage area UNIVERSE                                              
                                                                                
Differences between cable and network basic demographic data.                   
                                                                                
     1. Network has program averages and VPH data. Cable does not.              
                                                                                
     2. Network data is provided for each week. Cable data is currently         
        provided for each month.                                                
                                                                                
     3. Cable has no season-to-date data.                                       
                                                                                
What does this mean to DDS users?                                               
                                                                                
     1. Posting cannot be done on individual days.                              
     2. Research reports can only report time period (half hour) data.          
     3. Only HOMES and CABLE are for reporting.                                 
                                                                                
MEETING REPORTS                                                                 
     Dancer - Dancer uses the cable demos from the published book to            
              do their post buys. The usual way of doing this is to             
              combine the monthly homes data with the quarterly VPH             
              data. The quarterly vph data is not available on tape.            
              They said they would do demo posting manually where               
              they needed it.                                                   
<ewpage>                                                                        
