         TITLE 'Demographic terminology'                                        
                                                                                
Frequency Multiple - A weighting factor which allows a user to assign more      
weight to a station than would be done using the optimization models.           
                                                                                
Metro Survey Area (MSA) - An area which generally corresponds to the Standard   
Metropolitian Statistical Area as defined by the U.S. government.               
                                                                                
Area of Dominant Influence (ADI) - Arbitron's geographic market design which    
defines each television market exclusive of others based on measureable viewing 
patterns.                                                                       
                                                                                
Total Survey Area (TSA) - A geographic area that includes the Metro Survey area 
(MSA) plus certain counties located outside the MSA.                            
                                                                                
Average Quarter-Hour Listening - Estimates for the average quarter hour during  
the entire time period being described.                                         
                                                                                
Cume Listening (Reach) - Estimates of the number of different persons who       
listened to a station for at least 5 minutes within the time period being       
described. Since a person could listen to more than one station for more than 5 
minutes during any given time period that person could be counted more than once
when doing cumes.                                                               
                                                                                
Exclusive Cume Listening - Estimates of the number of people who listened to one
and only one station for a given time period.                                   
                                                                                
Away From Home - Estimates of persons who listened to radio while they were     
away from home. (Only given for dayparts of over 1 hour duration)               
                                                                                
Average Persons - average audience for a quarter hour of a selected time period.
                                                                                
                                                                                
Average Persons Share - average audience for a station/average audience for that
station's market.                                                               
                                                                                
Average Persons rating - Average persons represented as a percent of the        
population of the selected demo.                                                
                                                                                
Cume Persons - Also known as reach, cume persons represents the number of       
different people listening to a particular station each week. Each listener is  
counted only once regardless of listening level.                                
                                                                                
Reach (Cume Rating) - Cume persons represented as a percent of the population of
the selected demo.                                                              
                                                                                
Turnover Ratio - The number of different "groups" of listeners that make up a   
stations total weekly audience in the selected daypart for the selected         
demographic. Turnover ratio is the weekly audience (Cume Persons) divided by the
average quarter hour audience (Average Persons).                                
                                                                                
Daily Time Spent Listening - A daily average of the amount of time              
(hours and minutes) spent listening to a particular station by the              
selected demographic during a selected daypart.                                 
                                                                                
Demographic Share (Audience Distribution) - The audience of the selected        
demographic represented as a percent of its total (Persons 12+) audience.       
                                                                                
Target Audience Efficiency - An index that compares Daily Time Spent Listening  
of a selected demo to the Daily Time Spent Listening of the stations total      
(Persons 12+) audience.                                                         
                                                                                
Cost Per Rating Point - What it costs on the selected staion to make one        
impression on one percent of the population of the selected demo.               
                                                                                
Cost Per Thousand (CPM) / Net Reach - What it costs to reach 1,000 different    
people on the selected station.                                                 
                                                                                
Cost Per Thousand (CPM) / Gross Impressions - What it costs to have a message   
heard by 1,000 people in the selected demo on the selected station              
                                                                                
Penetration (Qualitative Report Only) - The percentage of different persons who 
listened 5 or more minutes during the total week who are also members of the    
selected Qualitative category.                                                  
                                                                                
Index - Represents the sation cume composition as a percentage of total radio   
cume composition for the selected category. An index of 185 in the selected     
category indicates that this stations has an 85% larger composition of the      
selected category than can be found in the total listening audience.            
                                                                                
Audience Composition (AQH and Cume) - See Demographic Share                     
                                                                                
<INDEX>                                                                         
How does MM+ get time spent listening.                                          
