         TITLE 'IFTGEN'                                                         
This program extracts records from the DDS work file and writes extract tapes.  
                                                                                
It uses the control file to obtain data such as labels, blocksize, fixed or     
variable length, etc.  Request cards are used to tell the program which user,   
system, program, ledger, day code and class to use to extract the records.      
                                                                                
When using standard labels, this data is included within the "VOL1" label.      
                                                                                
For each tape a control report is printed describing the attributes of the data 
contained therein.  Also, labels (VOL, HDR, EOF) and the first 80 bytes of      
first and last records in character and hex are printed.                        
                                                                                
 The Control File                                                               
 ----------------                                                               
                                                                                
Step 1 in setting  up an interface tape is to add a control file record for it: 
                                                                                
1 -  Initiate control program - USER=TCH1, SYSTEM=CON, PROGRAM=F.               
                                                                                
2 -  RECORD TYPE=INTAPE, ACTION=ADD.                                            
                                                                                
3 -  USER ID=user for whom this tape is being prepared (i.e. FCCH).             
     SYSTEM=ACC, SPOT, PRINT, etc.                                              
     PROGRAM=the two digit program code in the work file records.               
     LEDGER=1 digit ledger code - this must match whatever is put in byte 6 of  
            the worker key.  Don't use '*'.                                     
                                                                                
TYPE OF LABELS:  "STD*OS", "STD*DOS", "NON-STANDARD", or "NO LABELS".           
                                                                                
PRECEDE DATA W/TM:  YES or NO, (N/A for standard).                              
                                                                                
LABEL DATA 1-40:  For standard labels a 1 to 17 position constant that would    
normally be placed in the "TLBL" card.  The control program will build the      
label and display it.  For non-standard, the first 40 positions of the non-     
standard label.  For no labels, it won't let you fill this field.               
                                                                                
LABEL DATA 41-80:  For standard and no labels this field cannot be entered.     
For non-standard enter what you want in the second half of the label.           
                                                                                
NUMBER OF TRAILING TM:  For standard labels it defaults to '1'.  For others the 
number of TMs at end of data desired, from 1-9.                                 
                                                                                
RECORDS PER BLOCK:  The number of records per block for fixed length - 001 to   
255.  Entering 'VLR' will indicate variable length unblocked records.  Variable 
blocked is not supported.  Default is '001'.                                    
                                                                                
SEND TO ATTN. OF   Any 20 position name, etc. or leave blank.                   
                                                                                
SHORT BLOCK PAD CHAR:  If you desire short blocks on fixed, blocked files to be 
padded, enter the padding character or else enter 'NO'.  Default is 'NO'.       
                                                                                
 The Request Card                                                               
 ----------------                                                               
                                                                                
Each run of the program needs request cards in order to know what it is to do.  
All parameters must be entered in one card separated by commas.  The parameters 
(they can be entered in any order starting in column 1) are:                    
                                                                                
USER= the name that is on the control file (i.e. FCCH).  This field is          
required.                                                                       
                                                                                
SYSTEM= the system on the control file.  (I.e. ACCOUNT, A, ACC, SP, S, SPOT).   
Will need at least the first letter.  Another required field.                   
                                                                                
PGM= the program I.D. (two positions) that is on the control file.  Omitting    
this keyword will obtain all PGMs for the user/system that are on the control   
file.                                                                           
                                                                                
LGR= the ledger that is on the control file.  Omitting this one position        
parameter will select all ledgers on the control file for the program.          
                                                                                
DAY= the two digit day code for the work file records being extracted.          
Required field.                                                                 
                                                                                
CLASS= the one character class code in the work file records.  Required field.  
                                                                                
 General                                                                        
 -------                                                                        
                                                                                
The program will not create a tape if there is any question of validity of      
parameters.  It will not even request a tape be mounted until at least one      
record can be found on the work file.                                           
                                                                                
Multiple volumes are not supported.                                             
