         TITLE 'IPCS'                                                           
This describes the essential steps to look at a dump under IPCS. There          
is a set of commands that have to be done to gain access to the dump.           
                                                                                
1) Select I from SPF primary menu.                                              
                                                                                
2) Select option 6 and select the dump you want to look at by typing SD         
   next to the dump name. PF3 out of option 6.                                  
                                                                                
3) Select option 4 and type DROPD and PF3 back to the option 4 screen.          
   Then type VERBX REGS to acquire and display the registers for the            
   dump. PF3 back to the IPCS option menu.                                      
                                                                                
4) Select option 1 to browse the dump. Hit ENTER after screen showing           
   the dump that you have selected in (1) above. You will then be given         
   a list/select type screen showing areas of the dump that can be              
   selected. This starts with one entry for the whole dump with the             
   column heading of PTR showing entry 00001. Type S against this entry         
   and you are now browsing the dump.                                           
                                                                                
5) You can redisplay the registers at any time by typing in the command         
   line IP VERBX REGS.                                                          
                                                                                
   You can locate the area where a register is pointing by typing L Rn          
   where Rn is the register you want.                                           
                                                                                
   If you dispay an area you want to come back to type EQU Label in the         
   command line to give a Label to the area. Then you can type L label          
   to locate the area subsequently.                                             
                                                                                
   Locate also supports offsets from labels. ie If RC is pointing to your       
   working storage and you want to look at working storage +15C you can         
   go directly using L RC+15C.                                                  
                                                                                
