                     TITLE - LINE UP DOCUMENTATION                              
                                                                                
 LINUP is a core resident phase designed to handle the scrolling of             
detail lines on a screen. The calling progam need only contain                  
routines to handle validation and display of a single line. LINUP will          
determine the next line to be processed.                                        
                                                                                
                                                                                
SET UP:                                                                         
    1. Include dsect DDLINUPD in program                                        
    2. Allocate space in a workarea for the control block                       
         described by DDLINUPD                                                  
    3. Allocate space in TWA for a table with room for one entry                
         for each detail line on the screen.                                    
       Each entry should contain data identifying                               
         corresponding detail line to calling program.                          
                                                                                
INITIALIZATION:                                                                 
    1. Initialize caller fields in LINUP control block                          
    2. Build a table via BNSRCH of data that could be displayed                 
         on detail lines.                                                       
    3. Set mode to either Validation or Display                                 
    4. Set HOOK address                                                         
    5. Call LINUP                                                               
                                                                                
VALIDATION MODE:                                                                
    1. LINUP returns pointing to start of next line on screen.                  
                                 entry in saved table identifying line          
    2. LINUP sets status bytes for                                              
             all       fields on line                                           
             first     field  on line                                           
             remaining fields  on line                                          
             all of window - valid only after window is fully processed         
    3. Caller should                                                            
            use saved table entry to find entry in BNSRCH                       
              table that corresponds to line.                                   
            validate input on line against table entry                          
              and update table entry and saved table entry                      
    4. At end caller should use table to update record                          
                                                                                
DISPLAY MODE:                                                                   
    1. LINUP returns pointing to                                                
                   start of next line on screen.                                
                   entry in saved table identifying line                        
                   entry in saved table for prior line                          
                         (nulls) indicates first line on screen                 
                         x'ff's  indicates last  line on screen                 
                   field indicating scrollling direction                        
    3. Caller should                                                            
            use saved table entry for prior line to find entry in               
              BNSRCH table that corresponds to it                               
            use scroll direction to point to next entry in table                
            display this entry on screen and update saved table entry           
    4. If either top or bottom of table reached tell LINUP.                     
                                                                                
NOTES:                                                                          
    1. If screen is filled on a display and caller has not indicated            
         end of table LINUP returns with a mode of MORE for caller              
         to display a message.                                                  
    2. On upward scrolling LINUP fills screen from bottom up. If top            
         of table is reached before top of the screen LINUP moves               
         filled lines to top and returns to caller to fill in bottom            
         of screen.                                                             
