         TITLE '$LOAD'                                                          
A new feature has been added to this Service Request which enables programs     
which have been loaded to the core resident phase test buffer (the Black Hole)  
to be removed so that the previous loaded phase or the production phase becomes 
the live version.  The full syntax for $LOAD is now as follows:                 
                                                                                
Parameter 1 (required)                                                          
                                                                                
Phase name in the format TSPPOOL where                                          
                                                                                
          S = system overlay number                                             
         PP = program number                                                    
         OO = overlay number                                                    
          L = core image library level (A, B, C or blank)                       
                                                                                
Parameter 2 (optional)                                                          
                                                                                
For disk resident phases omit this parameter for production phases or enter     
test level (A, B or C).                                                         
                                                                                
                                                                                
For core resident phases the format of this field is LEVEL (A, B or C), ACTION  
or LEVEL,ACTION.                                                                
                                                                                
ACTION (1-7 characters) can be one of the following:-                           
                                                                                
     CORERES - makes a non core resident phase core resident.  This action must 
     be used when loading test versions of core resident phases (except TOOA    
     phases) where the loaded phase is to be core resident.                     
                                                                                
     DISKRES - makes a core resident phase non core resident.  This action is   
     ignored when loading TOOA phases.                                          
                                                                                
     REPLACE - overwrites the current version of the phase in core with the     
     version being loaded provided that the length of the phase has not         
     increased.  If this parameter is omitted the new version of the phase will 
                 -------------------------------------------------------------- 
     be loaded into the core resident phase test buffer.                        
     ---------------------------------------------------                        
                                                                                
     REMOVE - reverses the action of the most recent load to the test buffer of 
     a phase.  After REMOVE the previous version of the phase in the test       
     buffer or the production version of the phase may become the live version. 
            --                                                                  
                                                                                
Parameter 3 (optional)                                                          
                                                                                
Phase action (1-7 characters), enter one of the following:-                     
                                                                                
     LOAD - loads a phase from the core image library to the programs file.     
     This is the default action if this parameter is omitted.                   
                                                                                
     FORCE - loads a phase from the core image library to the programs file and 
     updates the phase length in the phase list.  This is only useful when the  
     length of the phase has decreased and it is critical to reflect this in    
     the phase list.                                                            
                                                                                
     ADD  - adds a new phase to the phase list.  This is either a test version  
     of a phase that already exists or for loading completely new programs.     
                                                                                
     DELETE - deletes a test version of a phase from the phase list.            
                                                                                
                                                                                
Parameter 4 (optional)                                                          
                                                                                
Input the nodes of the program to be added to the phase list.  If this          
parameter is omitted when adding live or test versions of phases that already   
exist in the phase list the nodes will be copied into the new entry.            
                                                                                
If the parameter is omitted when loading in completely new programs the         
following is assumed:-                                                          
                                                                                
     - if the overlay number is greater than X'AA' nodes of 00 are assumed.     
                                                                                
     - if the overlay number is X'00' nodes of 01 are assumed.                  
                                                                                
     - all other overlay numbers get nodes of 10.                               
                                                                                
In an environment where the programs file is being shared two or more FACPAK    
systems, one of the systems must be designated the master.  The other (slave)   
systems will have reduced LOAD capabilities.  Specifically, while the master    
system has all the options mentioned above, the slave systems may not load any  
phases to the programs file.                                                    
                                                                                
On a slave system, LOAD is only used to load core resident phases and to refresh
the contents of the expansion area of the in-storage phase list.  This expansion
area is used whenever you add a new phase to the phase list with LOAD.          
                                                                                
To load a new version of a phase to a slave system, just load it to the master  
system, and it will automatically appear in the slave system UNLESS THE PHASE IS
CORE RESIDENT. If the phase is core resident, you must also load it to the slave
system.                                                                         
                                                                                
To add a phase to the phase list, add it on the master system, then refresh the 
slave system by using the LOAD service request with the letter R in parameter 1.
