<doctype>memo                                                                   
<docname>READERSHIP RESEARCH AND CROSS-TABULATION                               
<front>                                                                         
<efront>                                                                        
<aof>                                                                           
<t>INTRODUCTION                                                                 
  This document brings together all the design work that has been done          
to date on the readership research and cross-tabulation systems.  It            
is a heterogeneous document containing both the normal screen and               
record layouts and a number of essays on various topics.  Some                  
sections are much more complete than others and different sections are          
directed at different audiences. Some of it was written with an eye             
toward final user documentation, but most of it is aimed primarily at           
a DDS audience. A good deal of it is intended to provide a basic                
grounding in what is a broad and difficult subject that most people at          
DDS have had little exposure to.                                                
                                                                                
  The document is not complete; in large measure because the design             
work itself is not complete.  The chapter on reach and frequency is             
only about 20% of what it should be and the one on cross-tabbing                
itself barely exists. The research report samples themselves are very           
sketchy and do not address a number of significant programming                  
considerations, though the request procedure design is reasonably               
detailed.  There is a lot of reference made to publists and schedules,          
but they are only roughly sketched out. The concept of file inversion           
is discussed but there is no explanation here of how we should go               
about doing it (though a good deal of work has been done in that                
area). Also, as is typical of this kind of screen layout/report layout          
documentation, there isn't as much discussion of what happens inside            
the system as there should be, and this is a system where a lot of              
what goes on lies well below the surface.                                       
                                                                                
  On the brighter side, the design in certain areas is reasonably               
complete. The Qspec concept, user target definitions, the structure of          
the survey files, the basics of the readership reports, the logical             
specification language- the ideas in these areas are fairly well                
developed. In addition, a good deal of the underlying theory and                
technique has been explored.                                                    
                                                                                
  Readership research and cross-tabbing are both covered in this single         
document because they are intimately related- they are based on the             
same files and share Qspecs, user targets, the logical specification            
language, weights, etc. It is not clear yet, however, how all the               
various screens, reports, and functions described here will be grouped          
into systems, sub-systems and programs when the pieces of the                   
planning system are finally put together.                                       
                                                                                
<pa>                                                                            
  In this table have laid out what I see as the major blocks of                 
systems effort.  Note that some coding work has aleady been done.               
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
.bx 33m 75m                                                                     
                                             PERCENT COMPLETE                   
.bx 01m 33m 47m 61m 75m                                                         
  TOPIC                              DESIGN        CODING    DOCUMENTATION      
.bx                                                                             
  File maintenance                                                              
   -Qspecs                             90%           20%           90%          
   -Other                              80%            0%           80%          
.bx                                                                             
  Cross-tabulation                                                              
   -Definition language                 5%            0%            0%          
   -Reports                             0%            0%            0%          
.bx                                                                             
  Readership research reports                                                   
   -Request definition                 80%            0%           80%          
   -Reports                            60%            0%           30%          
.bx                                                                             
  Logical spec. language                                                        
   -External                           80%           80%           60%          
   -Internal                           80%           80%            0%          
.bx                                                                             
  Reach and frequency                                                           
   -'Traditional'                      20%            0%           10%          
   -Personal probability               10%            0%           10%          
.bx                                                                             
  Optimization                         10%            0%          50%           
.bx                                                                             
  Survey file inversion                80%           80%           0%           
.bx                                                                             
  **OTHER SYSTEMS**                                                             
   -Publication file                   80%            0%           60%          
   -Magazine rate lookup               40%            0%            0%          
   -Publists                           80%            0%           50%          
   -Schedules                          50%            0%            0%          
.bx off                                                                         
<t>SURVEY FILES AND FILE INVERSION                                              
  This section is intended as a brief introduction to the structure of          
the readership survey files and how it affects the readership research          
and cross-tabulation systems.                                                   
                                                                                
  The files, as we will receive them, contain one logical record for            
each respondent. Each record consists of one or more 'cards'. Each card         
contains a number of 'columns' (typically 80). Each column has 12               
possible punches. The files are in column binary mode, not EBCDIC or            
ASCII. This means that the low order 6 bits of two consecutive bytes            
are used to contain one column. The X,Y,0,1,2,3 punches are in byte 1,          
the 4,5,6,7,8,9 punches in byte 2.                                              
                                                                                
  Sometimes a respondent number will appear in each record or in each           
card. Each card may also have a field for card number.                          
                                                                                
  In the most common case, each answer to each question on the                  
questionnaire is coded in a specific punch in a specific card/column.           
For some questions, however, the answers are contained in a numeric             
field of one or more columns. An answer can also be a character                 
string, but this has little or no applicability for our purposes.               
Punch code questions can be either multi-punch (What makes of car do            
you own?) or 'single-punch' (What single make of car do you drive most          
often?).                                                                        
                                                                                
~FILE INVERSION                                                                 
                                                                                
  With the file structure described above, any tabulation, even of only         
a single response, requires passing the entire file. That approach is           
fine if you are tabulating as large number of responses, but it is              
inefficient if you are interested in only a few. Our applications, in           
a on-line environment and requiring only relatively small amounts of            
data at a time, call for a different file structure.                            
                                                                                
  The technique is to invert the file. That is, instead of keeping it           
in respondent order, we keep it in question and answer order.  In               
general, each answer to each question is represented by a single                
logical record on the inverted file.                                            
                                                                                
  Each respondent is represented positionally by a bit- on if he has            
given that answer, off if he has not. If there are 20,000 respondents,          
each answer set is a 2500 byte (20,000 bit) string.  With this                  
structure we can very efficiently get at all the data we need and only          
the data we need.                                                               
                                                                                
  Such bit strings, or vectors, lend themselves admirably to Boolean            
operations which, of course, are so fundamental to cross-tabs and               
target definition.                                                              
                                                                                
  A slight variation enables us to handle numeric fields (including             
weights) as well. Instead of each respondent being represented by a             
bit, he has a 1 to 4 (typically 2) byte field containing the value in           
binary of his answer. These vectors are obviously much longer (20 -             
80K for 20,000 respondents) than the bit strings.  Equally obviously,           
they cannot be directly subject to Boolean operations- they do not,             
after all, represent logical conditions.  A bit string could be                 
created, however, representing respondents with the desired numeric             
values (one value, a range of values, or even a set of ranges). Such a          
string, representing a complete logical condition, could participate            
in a Boolean expression.                                                        
                                                                                
  It is cumbersome with inverted files to determine 'single-punch'              
conditions, i.e. those respondents who have selected one and only one           
of a set of answers. For this reason the surveys sometimes pre-code             
these conditions on the tape. Typically involved are brand usage                
questions; it is often important to know how many mentioned a                   
particular brand and only that brand.                                           
                                                                                
  The inverted file will contain a record for each relevant                     
card/column/punch. This is the raw data of the survey. In the interest          
of greater efficiency, it should also contain 'pre-tabbed' vectors              
for certain DDS defined, commonly used conditions, like standard                
demographic categories. Some data used in readership measurement                
should also be pre-tabbed.                                                      
                                                                                
  The files we will be dealing with are large. The SMRB and MRI                 
surveys each have yearly samples of about 20,000. With approximately            
100 cards for each respondent, that comes to about 3,840 megabytes              
(remember 2 bytes per column). File inversions do not necessarily               
result in compression, but here we have a built-in 25% slack owing to           
the column binary format. This, along with the fact that not every              
punch represents useful data, means the inversion will bring it down            
to about 1,500 - 2,000 megabytes (about the size of a SPTFILE?). The            
NRS and TGI have larger sample sizes but smaller questionnaires. The            
files overall are not as large.                                                 
                                                                                
<t>SURVEYS/RELEASES/WAVES                                                       
                                                                                
   -Just some loose notes on a difficult and important topic-                   
                                                                                
   There are five major surveys we are likely to have to deal with.             
                                                                                
   SMRB (US)  - Simmons Market Research Bureau.                                 
   MRI  (US)  - Mediamark Research Inc.                                         
   NRS  (UK)  - National Readership Survey.                                     
   TGI  (UK)  - Target Group Index.                                             
   PMB  (CAN) - Print Media Bureau?                                             
                                                                                
   The surveys differ importantly in terms of when they are released,           
what each release consists of, and the degree of similarity between             
releases.                                                                       
                                                                                
SMRB-  New survey every year.  (They do, however, release two-year              
       combined surveys which we may have to handle.)                           
                                                                                
MRI-   New survey every 6 months. Each survey or wave is released in            
       combination with the previous, providing a sort of 12 month              
       moving average file.                                                     
                                                                                
       MRI does whatever recoding is necessary, so the two waves are            
       identically coded. Some questions and answers may be present in          
       only one wave, however.                                                  
                                                                                
NRS-   ???  Surveys released independently every quarter (or 6                  
       months?).  Each is virtually identical to the last, the only             
       likely difference being the addition/subtraction of a                    
       publication or two.  We will definitely need to combine                  
       multiple surveys for tables and readership analyses.                     
                                                                                
       When a new contract is signed (every 2-3 yrs?) a whole new               
       questionnaire is designed. I don't believe we would be                   
       expected to report across incompatible surveys.                          
                                                                                
TGI-   ???                                                                      
                                                                                
PMB-   ???                                                                      
                                                                                
~HOW TO HANDLE                                                                  
                                                                                
SMRB-  No problem. (Except possibly in handling two-year combinations.)         
                                                                                
       Each survey separate. (Perhaps, but not necessarily                      
       a separate DDS file - see Survey definition screen.)                     
                                                                                
       Separate code-book for each survey.                                      
                                                                                
MRI-   We must indicate for each card/column/punch what waves are               
       applicable. As MRI does not generally ascribe answers to                 
       respondents in the missing wave, we can only report the partial          
       results unless we extrapolate. In either case an explanatory             
       note would be needed on cross-tabs and readership reports.               
                                                                                
       Each two-wave release separate. (Perhaps, but not necessarily            
       a separate DDS file).                                                    
                                                                                
       Separate code-book for each two-wave release.                            
                                                                                
NRS-   Each survey separate. (Perhaps, but not necessarily                      
       a separate DDS file).                                                    
                                                                                
       Code-book shared across 'compatible' surveys. This assumes               
       that the card/column/punch configuration remains unchanged.              
                                                                                
       There may be problem with weighting across surveys.                      
                                                                                
       Data that is not present in all surveys being processed will,            
       as with MRI waves, have to be reported partially, or                     
       extrapolated.                                                            
                                                                                
TGI-   ???                                                                      
                                                                                
PMB-   ???                                                                      
                                                                                
  Generaly, in order to produce tables across multiple surveys we               
would tab each survey separately and add the results.                           
                                                                                
  With all the surveys (even for NRS across new questionnaires)                 
there is probably enough in common from one survey to the next to make          
copying the previous code-book and ammending it much more efficient             
than starting from scratch.                                                     
                                                                                
<t>QSPECS -INTRODUCTION                                                         
                                                                                
  The Qspec file is used to maintain the survey code-books. It carries          
card/column/punch codes and annotation and reflects the structure of            
the questionnaire.                                                              
                                                                                
  Qspecs are designed to provide a 'buffer zone' between the user and           
the card/column/punch (c/c/p) configuration of the survey file, in              
much the same way that a higher level computer language insulates the           
programmer from the somewhat more abstract assembler instructions.              
With Qspecs the user will still have to deal to some extent with                
Boolean and's and or's and understand the basics of the logic                   
involved, but that burden will be somewhat reduced.  In any case,               
being able to use English words instead of c/c/p codes to describe              
logical conditions will give the whole system a much 'friendlier'               
aspect.                                                                         
                                                                                
  I don't anticipate, however, that Qspecs will completely replace the          
direct use of c/c/p codes. Users will generally have a survey                   
code-book at their disposal, and may, for a variety of reasons, find            
it either more convenient or more logical to use it instead of our              
scheme of codes. Just as cobol statements are sometimes longer and              
more cumbersome than the equivalent assembler statements, Qspecs will           
often be less compact than c/c/p conditions.  In addition, DDS may              
choose not to encode the entire questionnaire, in which case users              
would have to continue using the survey code-books.                             
                                                                                
  Let me suggest five main uses for Qspecs-                                     
                                                                                
    1. User target definition.                                                  
                                                                                
    2. Individual row/column specs for cross-tabs.                              
                                                                                
    3. By virtue of their topic/question/answer structure they                  
       could be used to generate complete cross tabs (at least                  
       fairly simple ones) or even entire sets of related                       
       cross-tabs almost automatically.                                         
                                                                                
    4. They provide a way for DDS to pre-define for users the                   
       c/c/p codes for a variety of often used targets or                       
       conditions; standard demographics, for example.                          
                                                                                
    5. As the link between the DDS publication file and the readership          
       surveys.                                                                 
                                                                                
                                                                                
   The Qspec file is a set of records representing the various elements         
of a survey questionnaire or code book. Typically a full Qspec is               
comprised of three parts- a topic, a question, and an answer.  Each             
part consists of a code of up to 8 characters (which must be kept as            
short and as meaningful as possible) and whatever data is needed at             
that level. The parts will commonly be strung together separated by dots        
to form the complete Qspec.                                                     
                                                                                
  Some simple examples-                                                         
                                                                                
    CARS                topic                                                   
    CARS.MAKE             question - what makes do you own?                     
    CARS.MAKE.VW            answer - Volkswagen                                 
    CARS.MAKE.FORD          answer - Ford                                       
        -etc.                                                                   
                                                                                
    TIRES               topic                                                   
    TIRES.BUY             question - has anyone in household bought             
                                     in last 12 months?                         
    TIRES.BUY.Y             answer - yes                                        
    TIRES.BUY.N             answer - no                                         
    TIRES.BUY.DK            answer - don't know                                 
                                                                                
   Qspecs at all levels have a printing order which is not dependent            
on their codes. This enables us to sequence logically the answers               
within a question, for instance, and still use recognizable codes.  A           
rating scale of excellent, very good, good, fair, poor could be coded           
E,VG,G,F,P and still print in the right order.                                  
                                                                                
   Topics also need to be grouped or sequenced logically. Possibly a            
need exists for a level above topic. FOOD, for example, might be                
a 'super-topic' with topics like SOUP or BREAD. Rather than allow,              
even optionally, a higher level (which would make the Qspecs just that          
much longer to input), I think it is better to rely on our ability to           
sequence them as we wish. We could arrange all the food topics to               
print together and set up a dummy topic of FOOD, positioned above the           
first.  FOOD could then be entered on a list screen, say, to get at             
the start of the food topics. Note that Qspecs constitute a                     
self-defining index to the code-book.                                           
                                                                                
  Questions can exist without topics. When this is possible, the main           
advantage is that the Qspecs are that much shorter and simpler.                 
                                                                                
  More importantly, 'answers' can exist without either questions or             
topics. These kinds of answers would be used as a short hand code for           
common conditions or targets.  MN1849, for example, might be a                  
complete, stand-alone Qspec for that demo category.                             
                                                                                
  A glance at a readership/product usage questionnaire will reveal that         
there is a great deal of repetition. For example, several questions             
may be asked with the same long list of brands as possible answers, or          
a respondent may be asked to rate many different items on the same              
excellent - poor scale. We can take advantage of that fact to reduce            
the work involved in creating a Qspec file and to reduce the actual             
size of that file by perhaps 30%. First, there will be a simple copy            
and ammend sequence available to speed up inputting. The system will            
also allow for special Qspecs to be set up once and then invoked over           
and over again as needed. These 'library group' Qspecs contain                  
symbolic parameters for things like card and column numbers and parts           
of the annotation which can be replaced dynamically as the Qspec is             
used.                                                                           
                                                                                
   DDS, of course, has to maintain the Qspec file for each of the               
surveys. It may not be necessary (but it would be nice) to encode each          
survey in its entirety. We may do the media and demographic sections            
and not do some or all of the product usage section.  Also, once we             
have done, say, one SMRB survey, we could copy it and make the changes          
(probably a completely new c/c/p configuration) for the next. It will           
still be a lot of work, but it should be better than starting from              
scratch.                                                                        
<t>CROSS-TABULATIONS                                                            
  The cross-tabulation part of this system has yet to be designed and           
documented. This chapter is just a brief outline of what it might look          
like.                                                                           
                                                                                
  It is important to remember that we are not designing a general               
purpose market research cross-tabulation system. In that sort of                
application a questionnaire typically has a short life span- it is              
coded and then tabbed once or maybe a few times and is handled by only          
a few people. Our need is for a system where we can take a large                
questionnaire, code it once and give many different people an easy way          
to get at it over a long period of time.                                        
                                                                                
  I see the specs for cross-tabulations being entered by the user in a          
free-form language, not a fill in the blanks request screen.  This              
mode of input requires that we develop at least a servicable text/line          
editor.  It wouldn't have to be anything too fancy, and a generalized           
program of that type would have many other system uses as well.                 
Alternatively, the source could be input in a TSO environment, but for          
a number of reasons I much prefer doing it all through FACPAK.                  
                                                                                
  The source program for the tables will be compiled and executed in            
one step each time it is needed.                                                
                                                                                
  One justification for putting so much effort into the Qspec file is           
that it makes defining at least fairly simple cross-tabs virtually              
automatic. The topic/question/answer structure makes tables of the              
'Question A by Question B' type almost self-defining, both in terms             
of logical specs and annotation. Column annotation is a lot trickier            
that row annotation, but a good deal of even that could be done by the          
system.                                                                         
                                                                                
  Of course a full table definition capabilty that is not dependent             
on the Qspec question and answer structure must also be supported.              
<t>WEIGHTING                                                                    
  Weighting can be defined as ascribing to a individual an arithmetic           
value rather than merely a binary 1 or 0.                                       
                                                                                
  There are three main kinds of weighting involved in the readership            
research/ cross-tab system-                                                     
                                                                                
     -Survey weighting.                                                         
     -Component weighting.                                                      
     -Various readership report weights (described                              
      in the report introduction section).                                      
                                                                                
~SURVEY WEIGHTING.                                                              
                                                                                
  Weights are used by the survey companies to balance the sample and to         
project it to the entire population. Here is a example of simple                
balancing.                                                                      
                                                                                
.bx 22m 31m 43m 52m                                                             
                       SAMPLE   POPULATION  WEIGHT                              
.bx 11m 22m 31m 43m 52m                                                         
           MEN           54%        49%       .907                              
           WOMEN         46%        51%      1.109                              
.bx off                                                                         
                                                                                
                                                                                
  In order to bring the sample in line with the population in terms of          
the proportion of men and women (known from another source), it is              
necessary to weight men down by .907 and women up by 1.109. By a                
sophisticated process the surveys are balanced simultaneously on a              
large number of demographic variables.                                          
                                                                                
The weights area constructed in such a way that the weighted total of           
the whole sample is equal to the total population, the weighted total           
of all men is equal to the number of men in the population, the                 
weighted total of people 18-24 is equal to the number of people 18-24           
in the population, and so on for all demographic categories that were           
balanced.  There is more than this involved in survey weighting, but a          
deeper understanding is not necessary for our purposes here.                    
                                                                                
It follows from the foregoing discussion that unweighted counts are             
not in themselves very significant, except to check against minimum             
reliable sample sizes.  They are, nonetheless, often shown on reports.          
                                                                                
  In most of these surveys each respondent is, if fact, given two               
weights- a personal weight and a household weight. The household                
weight is used to project the sample to the total number of                     
households. Most questions are weighted by the personal weight; only            
questions asked about the household as such (e.g. How many cars are             
owned by this household?) are normally weighted using the household             
weight. In theory, however, you can weight any question either way;             
your choice would depend on whether you are interested in numbers of            
people or numbers of households.  For our purposes each question                
should be assigned a default weight- either personal or household.              
                                                                                
  Survey weights are applied as the last step. After whatever other             
operations or manipulations an answer vector (bits or component                 
weights) goes through, only the final result is cross-multiplied                
by the survey weight vector.                                                    
                                                                                
~COMPONENT WEIGHTS                                                              
                                                                                
  Component weights may be used in targets and certain Qspec                    
answers.                                                                        
                                                                                
  Let me start with two examples-                                               
                                                                                
  Example 1. Your basic target is MN18-49 but you wish to assign                
             less weight to the younger age brackets within that                
             group.                                                             
                                                                                
.bx 11m 30m 41m                                                                 
                COMPONENT       WEIGHT                                          
.bx                                                                             
                 MN18-24          .85                                           
                 MN25-34          .90                                           
.bx off                                                                         
                                                                                
               Everyone in the target group starts with a weight of             
             1.00. The component weights are applied as multipliers.            
             In this case the target group ends up being divided into           
             exactly three weight groups.                                       
                                                                                
.bx 11m 30m 41m                                                                 
              WEIGHT GROUP      WEIGHT                                          
.bx                                                                             
                 MN18-24          .85                                           
                 MN25-34          .90                                           
                 MN35-49         1.00     (no adjustment to weight)             
.bx off                                                                         
                                                                                
             Persons not in the target group receive a weight of zero,          
             of course.  Components can be weighted up with a weight            
             greater than 1.00 or down with a weight less than 1.00.            
                                                                                
  Example 2. Again your target group is MN18-49. This time, however,            
             you want to weight MN18-24 by .85 and men with a                   
             household income of less than $40,000 by .75.                      
                                                                                
.bx 11m 30m 41m                                                                 
                COMPONENT       WEIGHT                                          
.bx                                                                             
              MN18-24             .85                                           
              HH INC < 40K        .75                                           
.bx off                                                                         
<pa>                                                                            
  The salient difference here is that the two components are not                
mutually exclusive. For this reason, the target now divides into                
four weight groups.                                                             
                                                                                
.bx 11m 31m 40m                                                                 
               WEIGHT GROUP                                                     
.bx 11m 18m 31m 40m                                                             
            AGE    HH INCOME    WEIGHT                                          
.bx                                                                             
           18-24    UNDER 40K     .64    (.85 x .75)                            
           18-24     40K+         .85                                           
           25-49    UNDER 40K     .75                                           
           25-49     40k+        1.00    (no adjustment to weight)              
.bx off                                                                         
                                                                                
  It would have been more cumbersome to specify each of the four                
resulting groups individually and figure the appropriate weight. That           
is the advantage of multiplicative weighting.                                   
                                                                                
  There are, however, also additive weights where each respondent in            
the target group starts with a weight of zero and receives component            
weight additively.  Component weights can be multiplicative or                  
additive, but not both.  Theoretically, any multiplicative weighting            
scheme could also be set up as additive, but unless the components              
were mutually exclusive the additive scheme would require more                  
components.  The two kinds of weights are handled quite differently by          
the system, as described below.  In the simple cases additive weights           
are probably marginally more efficient.                                         
                                                                                
  An important use component weights of both kinds is described in the          
chapter on Readership Measurement.                                              
                                                                                
  It is important to understand the difference between an unweighted            
target and one that is component-weighted. An unweighted target is              
strictly binary and can be represented by a bit vector. With a                  
multiplicative weighted target each respondent has an arithmetic value,         
and the target can only be represented by the vector of those values.           
This means that you cannot simply 'and' or 'or' it with a normal                
logical condition.                                                              
                                                                                
  It is more efficient to handle additive weights differently. The bit          
vector for each component is summed separately (using the survey                
weights) and the resultant totals are weighted by the component                 
weights.  This is not at all the same as creating a single vector of            
arithmetic values, but this approach  does not make it any easier to            
perform Boolean operations on the target group.                                 
                                                                                
  On cross-tabs it is possible to have both a row and a column be               
weighted conditions. The table cell would be the result of cross-               
multiplying the two arithmetic vectors in the multiplicative case or            
of summing the cross-multiplied and weighted counts of the separate             
component bit vectors in the additive one.  That could be thought of            
as 'anding' the two together. However, that is not the same thing as            
including weighted conditions in a Boolean expression. What, if                 
anything, does it mean to 'or' together two weighted conditions?                
                                                                                
  Though there may be some cases where it will prove awkward, I feel            
we are safe in excluding weighted targets or conditions from Boolean            
operations.                                                                     
                                                                                
<t>READERSHIP MEASUREMENT                                                       
                                                                                
  The readership surveys differ significantly in how they are used to           
estimate vehicle readership. What is of interest to us here is not              
details of questionnaire design and interviewing techniques, but how            
the data is represented on the file and what we have to do to arrive            
at the key numbers necessary for analysis and for reach and frequency           
calculations. The surveys fall into two camps- SMRB on one side and             
MRI, NRS, and TGI on the other. There is a lot common ground, however;          
they are, after all, measuring more or less the same thing.                     
                                                                                
  Some standard nomenclature first-                                             
                                                                                
    Average Issue - Number of persons reading an average                        
    Readership      issue of the publication. The reach of                      
                    one issue.                                                  
                                                                                
    C1            - Average issue readership.                                   
                                                                                
    C2            - Two issue readership. The net reach of                      
                    two issues.                                                 
                                                                                
    CN            - N issue readership. The net reach of                        
                    N issues.                                                   
                                                                                
    C(A,B)        - The net readership of 1 issue of each of                    
                    two vehicles, A and B.                                      
                                                                                
    Turnover rate - the ratio between the two issue readership                  
                    and the average issue readership- C2/C1.                    
                                                                                
  The C1, C2, and C(A,B) values are fundamental. They can be derived            
directly (more or less) from the file. They are the basis of the                
extrapolations described in the chapter on Reach and Frequency.                 
                                                                                
  It is also worth noting that readership is often qualified by                 
where the vehicle is read. In-home readers are generally more                   
highly prized than that out-of-home readers. A similar distinction is           
sometimes made between 'primary' readers and 'secondary' readers.               
Reporting on some group of readers does not affect the procedures               
described here, they just operate on a smaller base.                            
<pa>                                                                            
~READERSHIP MEASUREMENT METHOD 1 (SMRB)                                         
                                                                                
   In Method 1 the readership measurement occurs in two phases. In              
each phase the respondent is asked about a different specific issue of          
the measured vehicle. For each vehicle, therefore, the sample divides           
into four catagories-                                                           
                                                                                
     Read neither                                                               
     Read issue 1 only                                                          
     Read issue 2 only                                                          
     Read both.                                                                 
                                                                                
   This diagram illustrates the four categories and how they combine-           
                                                                                
.bx 01m 40m                                                                     
           READ ISSUE #1 (120)                                                  
.bx 16m 60m                                                                     
                              READ ISSUE #2 (132)                               
.bx 01m 16m 40m 60m                                                             
  #1 ONLY (48)       #1 AND #2 (72)         #2 ONLY (60)                        
.bx 01m 60m                                                                     
                       #1 OR #2 (180)                                           
.bx off                                                                         
                                                                                
  The last box, those who read either issue is the C2 value- the net            
reach of two issues. Note that the issue #1 readers plus the                    
issue #2 readers minus C2 equals those who read both- the duplicated            
readership. (120 + 132 - 180 = 72). C2 can be obtained very readily             
from the file by a simple Boolean expression                                    
                                                                                
     C2   = Read Issue #1  OR  Read Issue #2.                                   
                                                                                
  It is the C1 value that is more difficult to arrive at and use in             
Method 1. There is no simple punch code, or indeed any logical                  
condition, which can be used to identify 'readers' of the vehicle.              
                                                                                
  C1 is, of course, simply the average of the two single issue                  
reader counts, in our case (120 + 132) / 2 = 126.                               
                                                                                
     C1  = Read issue #1  PLUS  Read issue #2                                   
           ----------------------------------                                   
                          2                                                     
                                                                                
  That, in itself, obviously doesn't present much of a problem.  It is          
trying to deal with 'reader' as a Boolean condition that presents               
problems.                                                                       
                                                                                
  These difficulties arise again when we consider the net readership            
of two vehicles. The fact that two issues of each vehicle are measured          
must be taken into account. The published SMRB data are derived using           
the following method of calculating C(A,B)-                                     
                                                                                
  Let A1 = Read issue #1 of vehicle A,                                          
      A2 = Read issue #2 of vehicle A,                                          
      B1 = Read issue #1 of vehicle B,                                          
      B2 = Read issue #2 of vehicle B.                                          
                                                                                
  Tabulate all the possible pairings-                                           
                                                                                
      A1 OR B1, A1 OR B2, A2 OR B1, A2 or B2                                    
                                                                                
  and average the resultant counts.  See the next chapter for a                 
description of how we might handle this.                                        
                                                                                
  The same technique could be extended to N vehicles; average all the           
possible or'ed groupings of one issue from each vehicle. But as there           
are 2 to the Nth power such groups, it quickly gets out of hand. Other          
techniques of estimating the reach of multiple vehicles (with different         
numbers of issues of each) are described in the Reach and Frequency             
chapter.                                                                        
<pa>                                                                            
~READERSHIP MEASUREMENT METHOD 2 (MRI, NRS, TGI)                                
                                                                                
  In a Method 2 interview two basic questions are asked. The format             
may vary and the interview procedures are more complicated than implied         
here, but it boils down to these two questions-                                 
                                                                                
  1. Have you read the most recent issue of X?                                  
                                                                                
  2. Of the last N issues of X, how many have your read?                        
                                                                                
  C1 is straightforward. The survey coders may do some evaluation               
of the answers to Question 1, but, in any case, everyone in the sample          
is directly coded as a 'reader' or 'non-reader' of the vehicle.                 
This is obviously a tremendous simplification over Method 1.                    
                                                                                
  The price for that simplicity is a much greater complexity in                 
deriving the C2 value. You could approach it this way. Suppose that of          
the entire sample 30% are readers and 70% are non-readers. That could           
be interpreted to mean that each person has a probability of .70 of             
not reading a particular issue.  The probability, then, of a person             
not reading each of two issues is                                               
                                                                                
       .70 x .70 = .49.                                                         
                                                                                
So the probablity of his reading either or both of two is                       
                                                                                
         1 - .49 = .51                                                          
                                                                                
and we can say that the two issue reach is 51%.                                 
                                                                                
  Unfortunately, that simple, unstratified approach is not good enough.         
It can be refined by sub-dividing the sample according to the claimed           
frequency of reading (Question 2) and going through the above                   
procedure for each group. This table provides an illustration of the            
technique.                                                                      
                                                                                
                                                                                
.bx 21m 35m 49m 63m 77m                                                         
                        READERS     NON-READERS   READ 0 OF 2   READ 1+ OF 2    
.bx 03m 14m 21m 28m 35m 42m 49m 56m 63m 70m 77m                                 
    CLAIMED    COUNT    #      %      #      %      #      %      #      %      
.bx                                                                             
       0        6000    800  13.33   5200  86.67   4507  75.11   1493  24.89    
       1        1400    600  42.86    800  57.14    457  32.65    943  67.35    
       2        1000    600  60.00    400  40.00    160  16.00    840  84.00    
       3         400    340  85.00     60  15.00      9   2.25    391  97.75    
       4        1200   1140  95.00     60   5.00      3    .25   1140  99.75    
                                                                                
     TOTAL     10000   3480  34.80   6520  65.20   5136  51.36   4864  48.64    
.bx off                                                                         
                                                                                
   In this case our C1 is 3480 and our C2 is  4864.                             
                                                                                
   The quickest way to compute the 'READ 0 of 2' column for a given             
   group is-                                                                    
                                                                                
           (NON-READERS) SQUARED                                                
           --------------------                                                 
                   COUNT                                                        
                                                                                
   Summing across the groups and subtracting from the total COUNT               
yields the C2 value.                                                            
                                                                                
  Note that there are 'readers' who do not claim to have read any               
of the last N issues, and 'non-readers' who claim to have read                  
all of them.                                                                    
                                                                                
  Note also that the claimed frequency is not itself used in the                
computation; it merely serves as as intuitively helpful way to                  
divide the sample. The point of dividing the sample is to give us a             
way, in effect, to make the probability function a little more refined.         
Instead of everyone being given the same probability, each claimed              
frequency group is given a different one. The implies a discrete,               
step-wise probability function. In reality, of course, the function             
should be continuous; each individual has is own probability of                 
reading or not reading a particular vehicle.                                    
                                                                                
  This would seem to be intimately connected to the 'personal                   
probability' method of doing reach and frequency. It is, of course,             
related, but there is an important structural difference. In                    
personal probability modeling each respondent is assigned                       
permanently, once and for all, a probability of reading each vehicle.           
In the method described above the claimed frequency groups and                  
therefore the group probabilities are re-computed each time for a               
specific target audience. This means that a person has, in effect, one          
probability as a 'sports car owner' and another as an 'upscale adult'.          
                                                                                
  Net readership across two vehicles is straightforward in Method 2.            
                                                                                
    C(A,B) = 'reader of vehicle A'  OR  'reader of vehicle B'.                  
                                                                                
  There is a odd symmetry between the two methods. In Method 1 the              
C1 derivation is difficult and non-Boolean while the C2 is trivial.             
In Method 2 the C1 is trivial while the C2 is difficult.                        
                                                                                
<t>LINKING THE READERSHIP FILES TO THE DDS PUBLICATION FILE                     
  The link between the readership files and the DDS publication files           
is maintained through an alpha code- the primary abbreviation of the            
publication (see the Publication File Maintenance Documentation).               
Special Qspecs will be set up using that alpha code- 'MAG' in the               
descriptions below.  The vectors for some of these Qspecs should                
probably be carried directly on the file to save having to re-create            
them every time they are needed.                                                
                                                                                
  What Qspecs are needed depends on the method of readership                    
measurement.                                                                    
                                                                                
~METHOD 1. (SMRB)                                                               
                                                                                
  C1      Average issue readership (AIR).                                       
                                                                                
         C1 is represented as a component-weighted Qspec answer                 
         (MAG.AIR).  Each respondent is, in effect, weighted by the             
         number of issues (0, 1, or 2) which he identified as ones he           
         read.                                                                  
                                                                                
         Let MAG.I1 stand for the logical condition 'read issue                 
         1', and MAG.I2 for 'read issue 2'. MAG.C1 can then be                  
         defined using multiplicative component weights-                        
                                                                                
             Logical specification  - MAG.I1 OR MAG.I2                          
             Component/Weight       - MAG.I1 EOR MAG.I2 / .50                   
                                                                                
         Only those who read one or the other count at all.  A                  
         person who read only one is considered a 'half reader'                 
         and is counted only at 50%. Those who read both are                    
         counted as full readers.                                               
                                                                                
         It could also be done using additive component weights; that           
         is, to count separately the two vectors-                               
                                                                                
               MAG.I1  -Read Issue #1                                           
               MAG.I2  -Read Issue #2                                           
                                                                                
         and apply a weight of .50 to each.                                     
                                                                                
         It is not clear to me yet which way would be more efficient.           
                                                                                
  C2      Two issue readership is trivial in Method 1.                          
                                                                                
              MAG.C2   = MAG.I1 OR MAG.I2                                       
<pa>                                                                            
  C(A,B)  Refer to the method for computing C(A,B) as described in the          
          previous chapter. What it amounts to is an additive,                  
          component-weighted Qspec.                                             
                                                                                
                Component- A1 OR B1,   Weight- .25                              
                           A1 OR B2,           .25                              
                           A2 OR B1,           .25                              
                           A2 OR B2,           .25                              
                                                                                
~METHOD 2. (MRI, NRS, TGI)                                                      
                                                                                
 C1       In Method 2 the C1 spec is trivial since whether the                  
          respondent is or is not a 'reader' is directly                        
          coded.                                                                
                                                                                
             MAG.AIR = 'reader' of the vehicle                                  
                                                                                
 C2       It is the two issue readership that is tricky in Method 2.            
          It cannot in fact be stated directly, even as a complicated           
          weighted condition. It requires the results of tabulating a           
          series of logical conditions.  The calculations are                   
          described in the chapter on Readership Measurement, it is             
          the logical conditions necessary which interest us here.              
                                                                                
          Let MAG.PGN represent probability group N in the probability          
          stratification based on the reading frequency question.               
                                                                                
          In order to derive the C2 value we need to tabulate the               
          following-                                                            
                                                                                
            MAG.PG1 thru MAG.PGN      -the various probability groups.          
                                                                                
            MAG.PG1 AND NOT MAG.AIR   -non-readers in each probiltiy            
                  thru                 group.                                   
            MAG.PGN AND NOT MAG.AIR                                             
                                                                                
 C(A,B)   Two vehicle readership is quite straightforward in Method 2.          
                                                                                
              MAG1.AIR  OR  MAG2.AIR                                            
                                                                                
<t>REACH AND FREQUENCY CALCULATIONS.                                            
  When this chapter is finished it will provide a thorough grounding            
in magazine reach and frequency methodology. As it stands now it just           
briefly introduces some of the highlights and mentions some of the              
directions we might pursue.                                                     
                                                                                
  First some elementary terminology-                                            
                                                                                
  REACH        -The net number of people exposed to the advertising,            
                i.e. the number reading any issue of any vehicle                
                containing the advertising. Reach can be expressed in           
                raw numbers or as a percent of the target population.           
                                                                                
  IMPRESSIONS  -A count of the total exposures. The sum across all              
                vehicles of the average issue readership times the              
                number of issues.                                               
                                                                                
  FREQUENCY    -The frequency for an individual is the number of times          
                he was exposed to the advertising, i.e. the number of           
                issues he read.                                                 
                                                                                
  FREQUENCY    -A complete analysis of the target group based on                
  DISTRIBUTION  the exact number of exposures for each person.                  
                                                                                
  AVERAGE      -The average of all individual frequencies.                      
  FREQUENCY                                                                     
                                                                                
  From the above definitions a fundamental relationship emerges.                
                                                                                
    AVERAGE FREQUENCY = IMPRESSIONS / REACH.                                    
                                                                                
~'TRADITIONAL' REACH AND FREQUENCY                                              
                                                                                
  You may recall from the chapter on readership measurement that the            
whole effort was geared toward arriving at three key values-                    
                                                                                
   C1     - Average issue readership for a single vehicle.                      
   C2     - Two issue readership for a single vehicle.                          
   C(A,B) - Net readership of a pair of vehicles, A and B.                      
                                                                                
  These values are the cornerstone of traditional reach and frequency           
extrapolation methods.                                                          
                                                                                
  When this chapter is complete it will include, in addition to a               
description of the computations involved, a discussion of the                   
theoretical background of these methods. It is an interesting and               
worthwhile subject, but it is definitely an acquired taste.                     
                                                                                
  For now let me just mention the two main problems we are trying               
to solve.                                                                       
                                                                                
  I.  How does reach develop across multiple issues of a single                 
      vehicle?                                                                  
                                                                                
      Let CN be the reach of N issues. Given C1 and C2 all the CN's can         
      be readily estimated through a simple, iterative computation. The         
      computation is much simpler than the theory behind it. This is            
      the famous 'beta-binomial' technique.                                     
                                                                                
      An additional computation will yield an estimate of frequency             
      distribution.                                                             
                                                                                
      This single vehicle extrapolation is the least controversial              
      aspect of magazine reach and frequency. The technique was                 
      first developed in 1958 and is quite well born out empirically.           
                                                                                
  II. How does reach develop for a schedule involving multiple issues           
      of multiple vehicles?                                                     
                                                                                
        In 1964 a Richard Metheringham of Foote-Cone-Belding in London          
      developed a half-theoretical, half-empirical computational                
      method which adapted the basic beta-binomial technique to                 
      multiple vehicles.                                                        
                                                                                
        In its original form it had one curious defect. In certain              
      circumstances, adding a new vehicle to the schedule actually              
      resulted in a decreased reach! That problem has been taken                
      care of in various modifications, but one serious shortcoming             
      remains- the Metheringham is notoriously weak in computing                
      frequency distributions.                                                  
                                                                                
        Like the basic beta-binomial, the Metheringham is                       
      computationally very simple.  It is based on the known nets of            
      all possible pairs of vehicles in the schedule. In effect, a              
      composite vehicle is created and the reach and frequency are              
      extrapolated based on it.                                                 
                                                                                
        There are other 'model' oriented ways of doing reach across             
      many vehicles.  The 'beta-matrix' method is one.  It is highly            
      regarded, perhaps even more so than the personal probability              
      approach, which we shall discuss presently. But it is very                
      cumbersome, requiring trememdous storage to evaluate any but the          
      simplest schedules.                                                       
                                                                                
~PERSONAL PROBABILITY                                                           
                                                                                
  In the traditional methodologies all estimates of reach and frequency         
are developed by starting with certain key values and extrapolating one         
way or another.                                                                 
                                                                                
  The personal probability approach is quite different.  Each                   
individual in the survey is assigned his own personal 'probability of           
reading' any particular vehicle (between 0.00 and 1.00).  This is done          
only one time for each survey and a person's probabilities are then             
carried on the file as if they were actual survey data- in the same             
way as numeric fields from the questionnaire itself.                            
                                                                                
  Before we discuss how the probabilities are assigned lets look at             
what we can do with them. Given an individual's probability of reading          
a particular vehicle, we can easily compute, via a simple binomial              
probability expansion, his probability of reading exactly                       
0,1,2,3.....N issues out of N possible. We can do this for M issues of          
a second vehicle as well. Putting the two together we can get his               
probability of reading any number of issues from 0 to N+M for the               
combined schedule. Performing the same computation for everyone in the          
survey and summing the probabilities will yield the expected number of          
people at each exact frequency level from 0 to N+M. Thus we have the            
net readers (1+ issues) and the full frequency distribution. This is            
all done without references to the C1, C2, or C(A,B) values. Of course,         
the procedure can be carried out for any number of vehicles, not just           
two.                                                                            
                                                                                
  The computations described above may seem to require a lot of                 
processing. I think a lot can be done to speed up the computations for          
each individual, but nothing can be done to change the fact that they           
have to be done for everyone in the survey- all 20,000 of them. This            
is why personal probability is not suitable for optimization runs. It           
is fine to evaluate one schedule this way, but not 10,000.                      
                                                                                
  The procedures described above are the trivial part of personal               
probability. The difficult part, and the part on which the whole thing          
depends, is assigning the probabilities.  That takes us back into               
probability theory and involves again the Beta function of                      
beta-binomial fame.                                                             
                                                                                
  I feel that we should look to eventually offering a personal                  
probability reach and frequency system, even if only for schedule               
evaluation and not optimization. But our first efforts should be                
directed toward implementing a 'traditional' method.                            
                                                                                
<t>LOGICAL SPECIFICATION LANGUAGE.                                              
  This section describes the language used to specify the logical               
definitions of-                                                                 
                                                                                
    - User targets.                                                             
    - Qspec topic and question bases.                                           
    - Qspec answers.                                                            
    - Component weights for targets and Qspec answers.                          
    - Individual rows and columns in cross-tabs.                                
                                                                                
  The language encompasses card/column/punch (c/c/p) codes, Qspecs,             
and Targets. A complete logical specification must result in a simple           
yes or no for each respondent.  However long the string of Boolean              
operators, codes, or complex comparison conditions, it must reduce to           
that.                                                                           
                                                                                
  The elements of the language fall into four main categories-                  
                                                                                
   1. Pointers           -Serve to indicate things like card and column         
                          number.                                               
                                                                                
   2. Operators          -The Boolean logical connectors.                       
                                                                                
   3. Logical conditions -Each a complete YES or NO condition.                  
                                                                                
       a. Punch codes                                                           
       b. Qspec answers                                                         
       c. Target codes.                                                         
       d. Numeric comparisons.                                                  
                                                                                
   4. Mode setters       -There are three 'modes'                               
                                                                                
          P  -card/column/punch                                                 
          Q  -Qspec                                                             
          T  -Target                                                            
                                                                                
          In a given statement you can freely switch back and forth             
          from one mode to another by use of the mode setters.                  
                                                                                
  What follows is a detailed description of each language element.              
Some elements can be expressed in more than one way, e.g. CARD and CD           
can both be used to indicate card number. You may choose whichever              
you are more comfortable with.                                                  
                                                                                
~POINTERS                                                                       
                                                                                
   CARD (CD)      Card pointer. Follow with 1-3 digits for card number.         
                                                                                
   COL  (C,*)     Column pointer. Follow with 1-3 digits for column             
                  number.                                                       
                                                                                
   (NN)           Numeric field indicator. Indicates that the current           
   FOLLOWING      column position is the start of a numeric field               
   A COLUMN       of the given length. This field can then be used in           
   POINTER        arithmetic comparisons.                                       
                                                                                
   NUMERIC        A Qspec that is a numeric question also acts as               
   QUESTION       pointer in the sense that subsequent arithmetic               
   POINTER        comparisons can refer to it. e.g. if AGE is a                 
                  numeric question then AGE = 15 is a valid condition.          
                  See Comparisons under Logical Conditions.                     
                                                                                
 ~OPERATORS                                                                     
                                                                                
   AND  (&)       'AND' one condition with another.                             
                                                                                
   OR   (,|)      'OR' one condition with another.                              
                                                                                
   EOR            'EOR' (exclusive OR) one condition with another.              
                                                                                
   NOT  (N)       Negate the following condition.                               
                                                                                
   THRU (-)       To specify an 'or range' for punches.                         
                  Example. '3 THRU 5' means '3 OR 4 OR 5'.                      
                                                                                
                  The punches are considered in the order                       
                  1234567890XY. If the first punch is 'higher'                  
                  than the second, the list wraps around.                       
                                                                                
                  Example. 'X-2' means 'X or Y OR 1 OR 2'.                      
                                                                                
  The normal operator heirarchy is NOT, EOR, AND, OR. Therefore,                
  '1 OR NOT 2 AND 3' means '1 OR ((NOT 2) AND 3)'.                              
                                                                                
  Parentheses can be used to alter the normal sequence.                         
                                                                                
  With THRU conditions the punches are or'ed together before                    
  combining with other conditions, thus- '1 AND 4-6'  means                     
  '1 & (4,5,6)' , not '(1 & 4) OR 5 OR 6'.                                      
                                                                                
  In general, parentheses add clarity to the logical expression.                
  When in doubt, use them!                                                      
                                                                                
~LOGICAL CONDITIONS                                                             
                                                                                
 PUNCH CODES-        To specify a particular punch within the current           
 1-9,0,X,Y           card/column.                                               
                                                                                
                     A punch code defines a complete logical condition;         
                     YES for each respondent with that punch, NO for            
                     those without.                                             
                                                                                
 SPECIAL 'PUNCHES'-  S- Single punch. Respondents with exactly 1 punch          
                        in the column get a YES.                                
                     B- Blank (no punches). Respondents with no punch           
                        in the column get a YES.                                
                                                                                
 COMPARISONS-        To compare a numeric Qspec or a numeric                    
                     card/column field to a constant.                           
                                                                                
   Results of comparison-                                                       
                                                                                
      EQ (=)       Equal                                                        
      NE           Not equal                                                    
      GT (>)       Greater than                                                 
      LT (<)       Less than                                                    
      GE (>=)      Greater than or equal to                                     
      LE (>=)      Less than or equal to                                        
                                                                                
  A comparison results in a complete logical condition, each                    
respondent is either a YES or a NO.                                             
                                                                                
  The comparison is between the most curently stated numeric Qspec or           
numeric card/column field and a constant which follows the comparison           
type, for example-                                                              
                                                                                
     NUMQ >= 10 AND <= 50    -A YES for all respondents whose value             
                              for NUMQ is between 10 and 50.                    
                                                                                
     CD22*15(2) =3 OR =7     -A YES for all respondents whose value             
                              in the two column numeric field at                
                              card 22 column 15 is 3 or 7.                      
                                                                                
  There is currently no provision in the language for combining                 
numeric fields arithmetically and comparing the results, or for                 
comparing one numeric field to another. These functions are                     
probably not necessary for our purposes.                                        
                                                                                
QSPECS-          Except in the case of numeric questions, Qspecs                
                 must be complete, i.e. stated down to the answer               
                 level. Qspec answers define complete logical                   
                 conditions.                                                    
                                                                                
                 If a Qspec is merely another answer for the most               
                 recently stated Qspec question, only the answer                
                 portion need be given-                                         
                                                                                
                    HOME.CONDO OR COOP     (CONDO and COOP are both             
                                            answers to 'HOME?')                 
                                                                                
                 If a Qspec is for a different topic or question, it            
                 must be stated in its entirety. If it is a stand-              
                 alone answer if must be followed by a ! (to                    
                 distinguish it from another answer to the current              
                 question).                                                     
                                                                                
                 Qspecs that have component weights are not simple              
                 logical conditions and cannot be used in Boolean               
                 operations.                                                    
                                                                                
TARGETS-         Target codes may be used in logical expressions.               
                 They may be either agency targets (preceded by an *)           
                 or DDS standard targets.                                       
                                                                                
                 Targets that have component weights are not simple             
                 logical conditions and cannot be used in Boolean               
                 operations.                                                    
                                                                                
'ALL'-           A special code meaning 'all respondents'.                      
                 Can only be used alone, not as part of a longer                
                 expression.                                                    
                                                                                
~MODE SETTERS                                                                   
                                                                                
  P/             Sets mode P - card/column/punch.                               
                                                                                
  Q/             Sets mode Q - Qspec.                                           
                                                                                
  T/             Sets mode T - Target.                                          
                                                                                
  The statement is initially assumed to be in Q mode. However, any              
statement that begins with 'CARD' or 'CD' immediately followed by a             
digit is assumed to be in P mode.                                               
                                                                                
  You can switch from one mode to another in the same statement                 
by use of the mode setters.                                                     
                                                                                
  In card/column/punch expressions, blanks are usually optional, e.g.           
1OR2 and 1 OR 2 are equally acceptable.                                         
                                                                                
(The one exception to this may occur after the column pointer. If the           
column number is expressed with only one digit a space must separate            
it from the following punch code to avoid ambiguity.  For instance,             
'*1 1' means 'a 1 punch in column 1' (just as '*011'), but '*11' means          
'column 11'.)                                                                   
                                                                                
  In Q and T modes, however, blanks are necessary to separate Qspecs            
or targets from eachother and from adjacent operators. Also no Qspecs           
or targets can match exactly the operator codes of the language, e.g.           
NOT, AND, OR, etc.                                                              
                                                                                
~EXAMPLES                                                                       
                                                                                
  CD2 COL3 4 OR 5                                                               
  CD2 *3 4,5                                                                    
  (CD20*05(3) > 123 AND < 456) AND *07(8 OR 9)                                  
  CD78 *5 1 AND 3-9                                                             
  MN1849 AND BOAT.OWN.Y                                                         
  MN1849 AND P/ CD10*201                                                        
  T/ TARG5 and (Q/ REG.NE OR P/ CD15*33 1-8)                                    
                                                                                
