         TITLE 'MBVAL'                                                          
                                                                                
Source     MBVAL,MBVAL1,MBVAL2                                                  
History                                                                         
Relo Name                                                                       
Phase Name T00A90,T00A91,T00A92                                                 
Faclists   DDMBFACS (SMBVAL,SMBVAL1,SMBVAL2)                                    
Dsects     MBVALPARMS, MBVALTABD, MBGLOBTABD                                    
                                                                                
MBVAL is a general validator-cum-translator for the Mediabase system.           
It performs the following functions, either separately or in combination:       
a)Validates an external expression of a specified type and returns its          
  internal code:                                                                
b)Translates an internal code belonging to a specified type into an             
  external expression:                                                          
c)Supplies a table of all the applicable values of a specified type,            
  containing both the internal and the external forms of each value.            
                                                                                
MBVAL may be called to do a), b) or c) above, or to do c) in combination        
with either a) or b). It always returns a table, built in a                     
caller-supplied area, containing at least one table entry regardless of         
the style of call. The format of the table is always the same for the           
first 52 bytes, regardless of the type of value it describes (see               
MBVALTABD). Thereafter the format will vary depending on the type. The          
table is always preceded by 4 full words of standard control                    
information.                                                                    
                                                                                
MBVALPARMS describes the parameters. No DSECT statement is included             
so that the set of labels can be included in a program's working storage        
DSECT. The parameters are in two groups, call-specific parameters and           
general information.                                                            
                                                                                
The call-specific parameters specify which function or functions are            
required. Six full words are reserved for this.                                 
                                                                                
The additional information (MBBLOCK) is intended to be common to all            
Mediabase module parameter lists. It is used to pass around:                    
a)addresses of facility lists - for standard DDS routines (DATAMGR etc.)        
                                and Mediabase-specific routines:                
b)addresses of MINIO blocks   - here the convention is that MINIO               
                                initialisation will already have been           
                                performed where relevant:                       
c)miscellaneous values        - for filtering (eg database and media            
                                type masks) and for key building etc.           
                                                                                
P/BYTE     DESCRIPTION (see MBVALPARMS for further details)                     
------     -----------                                                          
1/0        Call type - must be one of validate/translate/table but a            
           table call may be combined with either validation or                 
           translation - see P3 for form of table returned.                     
                                                                                
           In addition to the call type, some options may be specified:         
           1. Duplicates required - with a table call, will return              
              synonym table entries (ie sharing the same internal code)         
           2. Globals required    - with a table or validate call causes        
              filtering by reference to the specific mediabase number           
              (if specified in MBMBNUM) to be omitted: thus if MBMBNUM          
              is present, a table call for COLOURS will return all              
              globally defined colours if this option is set: if not,           
              only those colours that are defined as valid in this case.        
           3. Help panels required- with a table call causes a help panel       
              number to be returned instead of a table, in the first 2          
              bytes of the table area. If a table is requested, but no          
              table is available, this option is set automatically.             
                                                                                
1/1-3      A(2-byte global internal code of the type)                           
           or nulls if the value has no type - ie is parentless                 
           or A(nulls) if the value is stand-alone, in which case the           
           type internal code is returned here.                                 
                                                                                
2/0        Length of value (if internal code, 2 is assumed)                     
2/1-3      A(external or internal value)                                        
           If the call is a table one alone, P2 is optional. If given           
           it causes the table to start at the specified internal code's        
           table entry.                                                         
                                                                                
3/0        Length of table area in 256-byte units (1=256, 2=512), if            
           table size is restricted. If given, module will only fill up         
           to this limit.                                                       
3/1-3      A(table area). If the help option is set in P1/0, the help           
           panel number will be returned in the first 2 bytes. In all           
           other cases a table will be returned as defined by MBVALTABD,        
           containing at least one table entry, preceded by 4 fullwords         
           of control information. Note that if a validate/translate            
           call is also a table call, the first fullword of the control         
           information will contain the address of the valid/translated         
           entry.                                                               
                                                                                
4/0        Hook routine control byte - to abort hook calls and exit.            
4/1-3      A(hook routine) or nulls. If non-zero, the hook routine will         
           be called with a 1-entry table in the table area, until P4/0         
           indicates that no more calls are required or the end is              
           reached. The call type is forced to table-only if there is           
           a hook.                                                              
                                                                                
MBBLOCK    See MBVALPARMS for the contents of the block of additional           
           information. Note that the minimum data required in the              
           block is indicated by asterisks - this will generally be             
           set up by the controlling module of a mediabase program.             
                                                                                
After MBVAL                                                                     
-----------                                                                     
5/0        Error indicator                                                      
           X'02' (MBPTOOQ) - table area too small                               
           X'01' (MBPINVQ) - invalid external/internal value                    
           X'FF' (MBPBADQ) - bad call: either an unknown type has been          
                             specified or the parameters are wrong.             
           Note that in the case of an invalid translate call, a table          
           entry will still be returned, containing '*?*' as the short          
           and full form of the external value.                                 
