         TITLE 'MBQCOMP'                                                        
                                                                                
Source     MBQCOMP                                                              
Relo Name  RMMBQCOMP                                                            
Phase Name T00A97                                                               
Faclists   DDMBFACS (SMBQCOMP)                                                  
Dsects     MBVALPARMS                                                           
                                                                                
  A MediaBase utility whose functions revolve around comparing                  
qualifiers.                                                                     
                                                                                
See the MBQCOMP source for a description of the parameter lists. Note           
that the 'command' is in P2/B0 not P1/B0.                                       
                                                                                
P2/B0= MBCQNRMQ - Normal function.                                              
----------------------------------                                              
                                                                                
The normal function of MBQCOMP is to evaluate a qualifier string                
in relation to the supplier header data and other qualifiers that may           
be present. In this mode it is called by MBLVAL (with qualfiers of              
qualifiers) and MBQED.                                                          
                                                                                
As part of this function it does 3 things.                                      
                                                                                
  1) It checks the header record for color and bleed availability if            
     they are present in the qualifier string being examined.  It also          
     checks that the pub belongs to the group in a group=xxx rate               
     qualifier.                                                                 
                                                                                
  2) It evaluates the given qualifier string in the light of the                
     qualifiers at MBAQFILT which is where a set of 'filter'                    
     qualifiers is saved. Qualifiers in the string can be added to              
     the saved filter string.                                                   
                                                                                
**** Note- at this point the code for 2) is noop'd. It has at various           
     times been more or less activated but at the moment is not.                
                                                                                
     The idea was to provide a way to check the overall compatibility           
     of qualifiers. This ranges from simply checking for illogical              
     duplicates within qual type (eg. 1c,2c) to seeing that 'qualifiers         
     of qualifiers' are not contradicted by later input.                        
                                                                                
     A lot could probably be done here to prevent ambiguities in the            
     lookups.                                                                   
                                                                                
     What needs to be done is to come up with some good rules about             
     what kinds of qualifiers are, in fact, incompatible and when they          
     are and also what kinds and when they should be added to the               
     filter table.                                                              
                                                                                
  3) Internal consistency check on the given qualifier string. This is          
     very similar to 2) but involves checking the string against itself         
     instead of the 'filter' string.                                            
                                                                                
**** Note- this function is also noop'd.                                        
++EJECT                                                                         
MBQCOMP is also sort of a qualifier 'tool box'. It performs various             
stand-alone utility functions unrelated to its main tasks.                      
                                                                                
P2/B0 = MBCQCMPQ - Qualifier string compare mode.                               
-------------------------------------------------                               
                                                                                
   A specialized, but still generally usable, qualifier string A                
to string B comaprison. Basically items in A are looked for in B                
and if found are so marked in A. See program for more detail.                   
                                                                                
P2/B0 = MBCQSCHQ - Qualifier search mode.                                       
-----------------------------------------                                       
                                                                                
   Searches all elements with a given element group code within a               
given minio record set for occurences of a given qualifier type or              
type and value. See program for more detail.                                    
                                                                                
