         TITLE 'MBLOOK'                                                         
                                                                                
Source     MBLOOK                                                               
History                                                                         
Relo Name  MBLOOK                                                               
Phase Name T00A9A                                                               
Faclists   DDMBFACS (SMBVAL,SMBVAL1,SMBVAL2)                                    
Dsects     MBLOOKD and various media base dsects                                
                                                                                
PARAMETER LIST                                                                  
--------------                                                                  
   Like most MediaBase modules MBLOOK must be called with R1 pointing           
to MBPARMS followed by MBBLOCK.                                                 
                                                                                
   Parm 1   - A(Control Block) - covered by MBLOOKD                             
                                                                                
OVERVIEW                                                                        
--------                                                                        
   MBLOOK is the central data lookup module for MediaBase.                      
                                                                                
   The control block dsect book, MBLOOKD, is extensive and in fact              
consists of quite a few dsects covering input and output. This document         
is as much as anything else a guide to MBLOOKD.                                 
                                                                                
   MBLOOK will do lookups of a number of different types of data. Most          
of these lookups can be done in more that one mode. There is a table            
near the beginning of MBLOOKD that shows the current possible                   
combinations.  In general, the caller supplies in MBLATAB the address           
where MBLOOK is to return the data. Each data type has its own dsect to         
cover the returned data. For some data types there can be more than             
one 'answer'. For instance there could be some ambiguity in the way             
the rates are stored on the file and there might be several rates               
that match the input criteria. MBLOOK can handle this through its               
hook, first/next, and menu modes.                                               
                                                                                
   Modes are not always stated explicity but can be implied by the data         
type and/or various other fields. The various modes and data types are          
described below:                                                                
                                                                                
MODES                                                                           
-----                                                                           
  TABLE   -Data is returned as a table of entries.  The number of               
           entries is set in MBLTCNT and the length in MBLTENTL.                
           Currently used only for membership and title rotations.              
                                                                                
  FIRST/  -Data is returned one entry at a time. In the returned data           
  NEXT     dsect you are told the number of the current entry and the           
           total number of entries.  To proceed to the next entry set           
           on MBLCNXTQ in MBLCNTL and call MBLOOK again. If that bit            
           is not on you get the first entry.                                   
                                                                                
           **NOTE- This mode was intended mostly for testing MBLOOK.            
           It is VERY inefficient if there are a lot of entries unless          
           you give MBLOOK an additional area where it can build and            
           save some tables.  See MBLAXTWK in MBLOOKD for details.              
           For every type of data where 'next' is can be used so can            
           'hook' and 'menu'.                                                   
                                                                                
  HOOK    -The user passes in MBLAHOOK the address of a processing              
           routine. The routine is called for each returned entry.              
                                                                                
  MENU    -This mode allows MBLOOK to interface with DDMENU. It is              
           activated by setting MBLCNTL to MBLCMENQ.  The caller must           
           pass the address of DDMENU's control block in MBLAMENB.              
           MBLOOK's actual function is then governed by MNMODE in               
           DDMENUBLK (build menu table, process selection, etc.)                
           Processing selections results in returning data to the user          
           in either 'first/next' or 'hook' mode, but since multiple            
           selections are note allowed there is only one entry.                 
                                                                                
  For some data types, headers for instance, the data is just returned          
  at MBLATAB without any specific 'mode'.                                       
                                                                                
DATA TYPES                                                                      
----------                                                                      
  Supplier  - various data is extracted from the header record                  
  Header      and set in MBLHDRD.                                               
                                                                                
  Rate Card - various data is extracted from the header record                  
  Header      and set in MBLRCHD.                                               
                                                                                
  Membership- The members of a supplier group are reurned in a table.           
              (This function could be expanded to owners and reps if            
              need be without much work.)                                       
                                                                                
  Title     - Returns a table of all rotation adjustments that are              
  Rotation    based on number of titles. Used only for supplier groups.         
                                                                                
  The remaining data types have several things in common:                       
                                                                                
    - They can be used in menu, hook or first/next mode.                        
    - They involve sifting through qualified data on the file and               
      selecting the best matches to the qualifier filters supplied at           
      MBLAQUAL or in the 'fixed qualifiers' (see below).                        
    - With the exception of the generic element group lookup they all           
      look at qualifiers at both the headline (element group) level and         
      at the detail (space) level. Space descriptions are matched as            
      well as qualifiers. The space argument is passed at MBLASPC.              
                                                                                
  Insertion - Calculates the rate for an insertion. In menu mode the            
  Rates       rate is calculated based on the items selected. If                
              a discount level and type are given the proper discount %         
              or rate is applied. Appropriate premiums are also                 
              applied. A quite detailed dsect is returned describing            
              both the basic rates and the premiums.                            
                                                                                
  Size     -  Finds the appropriate size data element(s) and returns            
  Data        the element addresses to the caller. No actual data               
              extraction or formating is performed. That is left up             
              to the caller. This is very like a special case of the            
              generic element lookup but it involves space descriptions         
              as well.                                                          
                                                                                
  Bleed    -  Just like size data execpt uses bleed size elements.              
  Data                                                                          
                                                                                
  Generic  -  The caller says in MBLXTRA what record type and element           
  Element     group code he wants. MBLOOK finds the appropriate groups          
  Lookup      and returns the link value and the address of the first           
              element.                                                          
                                                                                
FIXED QUALIFIERS                                                                
----------------                                                                
  The interface with the buy program for rate lookup was made easier            
and more controllable by the introduction of 'fixed qualifiers'.                
Certain qualifiers, instead of being added to the qualifier string              
at MBLAQUAL, have their values set in a specific field in another               
dsect (MBLFQD) whose address is passed at MBLAFQS. The value actually           
retrieved from the file is returned to the caller in an adjacent field          
in the same dsect.                                                              
                                                                                
USES OF MBLOOK                                                                  
--------------                                                                  
  The header data lookups and the rate lookups are fairly well                  
settled. There may be a few additional specialized lookups similar              
to membership or title rotation but they are sidelines.                         
                                                                                
  Most future uses of MBLOOK are expected to take the following form.           
For each major data type (column data, circulation, etc.) an                    
individual module will be written which will have its own dsect and             
modes of communication for accepting controls from its caller and               
returning data. These modules will in turn call MBLOOK to get what they         
need. Typically they will use the generic element lookup (and/or the            
size or bleed lookups) so all MBLOOK will do for them is find the               
correctly qualified element group(s). The individual modules will be            
responsible for actually extracting the data they need from the                 
elements. They will have to decide what to do if there are multiple             
possible entries and they can properly handle only one. They may, as in         
the case of the module to calculate actual ad sizes, have to use MBLOOK         
to get several different kinds of data.                                         
                                                                                
  A current example of such an MBLOOK 'satelite' is MBDATER. What it            
calls its 'higher level' functions work pretty much as described above.         
                                                                                
