         TITLE 'MBEDTN'                                                         
                                                                                
Source     MBEDTN                                                               
Relo Name  MBEDTN                                                               
Phase Name None                                                                 
Dsects     MBEDTND and various media base dsects                                
                                                                                
OVERVIEW                                                                        
--------                                                                        
   MBEDTN can be called on to build a list of edition codes for a               
supplier.                                                                       
                                                                                
   The list can be generated in one of two modes:                               
                                                                                
     1) Normal mode. A simple list of the two-byte MediaBase internal           
        codes for the editions is returned in the area provided by the          
        caller.                                                                 
                                                                                
     2) Menu mode. A list suitable for use by DDMENU is built in the            
        area provided by the caller. Space for the list control block           
        (covered by MNVALTBD) is cleared and an entry header (covered           
        by MNVALENT) is built for each entry.  When MBEDTN is used in           
        conjunction with DDMENU it should be called when MNMODE is              
        MNTABLQ.                                                                
                                                                                
   In addition, one of two bases for the the list may be specified.             
Either basis can be used with either format.                                    
                                                                                
      1) Mbval basis. The list is generated by simply calling mbval             
         and adding each returned edition to the list.                          
                                                                                
      2) Rate card basis. Only editions that are used in the rate card          
         effective on the specified date are included in the list. If           
         the specified date is nulls, the latest rate card is used.             
         Basic rate elements and premium elements are searched.                 
                                                                                
         **Note- at present MBEDTN does not support searching multiple          
                 rate cards.                                                    
                                                                                
   It is also possible to exclude either locals or globals from the             
list.                                                                           
                                                                                
PARAMETER LIST                                                                  
--------------                                                                  
   Like most MediaBase modules MBEDTN must be called with R1 pointing           
to MBPARMS/MBBLOCK.                                                             
                                                                                
   Parm 1   - A(Control Block) - covered by MBEDTND                             
                                                                                
   The fields in the control block are explained in sufficient detail           
in MBEDTND.                                                                     
                                                                                
