         TITLE 'MPREADREX'                                                      
                                                                                
  MPREADREX is one of the programs which comprise the readership                
analysis part of the Media Planning System.                                     
                                                                                
  It takes a skeleton data vector table and begins the fleshing out             
process with data extracted from the readership survey files.                   
                                                                                
PARAMETER LIST                                                                  
-------------                                                                   
                                                                                
    PARAM1     A(GEND)          - The basic GENCON work area.                   
    PARAM2     A(Control block) - covered by MPRXCTLD.                          
                                                                                
    In addition to MPRXCTLD it also uses MPVTABD and MPPCMDD.                   
                                                                                
    READREX also uses NODIO and MPQFAC, but everything it needs                 
    for these is part of the $RDRSHP environment.                               
                                                                                
    COVAIL and BINSRCH must be passed to READREX in the control dsect.          
                                                                                
WHAT DOES READREX LOOK-UP?                                                      
--------------------------                                                      
                                                                                
  READREX doesn't know or particularly care what kind of report is              
being produced- it is driven solely by the contents of the processing           
command table and the data vector table.                                        
                                                                                
   All data returned are population counts, with the exception of those         
global fields which are specifically sample counts.                             
                                                                                
  The precision to which the population counts are computed is                  
controlled by MPQBPPRE in the dsect MPQBLKD. (x'03' = 000's, x'02' =            
00's, etc. x'00' = units).  This should probably be normally left at            
x'00' and the data converted, if desired, by the report module.                 
                                                                                
  The following 'bases' are processed from the command table and                
  the data are set in the data vector table.                                    
                                                                                
   a) AUD-    Audience within target. (C1, or A.I.R)                            
              PCWGT controls whether impact factors are applied.                
                                                                                
   b) BRD-    Audience within base.                                             
              PCWGT controls whether impact factors are applied.                
                                                                                
   c) DUP-    For VXV- duplication between a pair of vehicles.                  
                                                                                
   d) NET-    For VXV- net of a pair of vehicles.                               
                                                                                
   e) SUM-    For VXV- sum of the audiences of a pair of vehicles.              
                                                                                
   f) RCH-    On REACH report, PCSFX is issue count.                            
              PCWGT controls whether impact factors are applied.                
                                                                                
              On schedule evaluation reports, RCH means the                     
              cumulative reach achieved thru this line of the                   
              schedule. PCSFX specifies the frequency level, i.e.               
              RCH-2 means the 2+ reach achieved so far.                         
              PCWGT controls whether impact factors and/or response             
              function weights are applied.                                     
                                                                                
   g) UNIQ-   Schedules only. The unique contribution of this line              
              to the schedule. Derived by re-computing the schedule             
              with this line removed and subtracting the result from            
              the total schedule. PCSFX specifies the frequency level,          
              i.e. UNIQ-2 to the contribution to the 2+ reach of the            
              schedule.  PCWGT controls whether impact factors and/or           
              response function weights are applied.                            
                                                                                
   Note- only raw data is extracted and set in the data vector table,           
         that is, only bases with a qualifier of #.                             
                                                                                
         READREX will extract whatever data it needs whether it is              
         explicitly requested or not. For instance, C1's, C2's and              
         pair nets are always needed for schedules. Such 'implicit'             
         data is not, of course, set in the data vector table.                  
                                                                                
                                                                                
   GLOBAL DATA- these global fields are returned in MPRXCTLD.                   
                                                                                
     RXSURSAM   - Survey sample size.                                           
     RXSURPOP   - Survey population.                                            
     RXBSAM     - Base sample size.                                             
     RXBPOP     - Base population.                                              
     RXTRGSAM   - Target sample size.                                           
     RXTRGPOP   - Target population.                                            
                                                                                
   FREQUENCY DISTRIBUTION ARRAYS-                                               
                                                                                
      These fields in MPRXCTLD are set by READREX to the address of             
    the various frequency distribution arrays-                                  
                                                                                
      If, and only if, at least one vehicle has a non-zero insertion            
    count (VTINS) does a schedule evaluation take place.                        
                                                                                
     RXFQA      - Basic counts.                                                 
     RXFQIF     - With impact factors.                                          
     RXFQRF     - With response function.                                       
     RXFQIR     - With impact factors and response function.                    
                                                                                
                                                                                
ERRORS                                                                          
------                                                                          
                                                                                
   Input errors detected by READREX are returned in RXERROR (and in             
   VTERR and VTERRP in the data vector fixed area if they pertain to a          
   particular vehicle) and supress further execution.                           
                                                                                
   For schedule evaluation the C1, C2 and pair net counts must fall             
   within certain parameters.  It is very rare that they would not,             
   except in two cases-                                                         
                                                                                
      - very small target audiences.                                            
      - schedules involving illogical or incompatible adjustments               
        or prototyping.                                                         
                                                                                
     Such vehicle count errors detected by the R/F module are set in            
   VTERR and VTERRP. A count of these errors in returned in RXVERRCT.           
   These error usually do not prevent schedule evaluation- the module           
   will make assumptions about the erroneous numbers that allow it to           
   continue.                                                                    
                                                                                
   If the C1 or A.I.R. sample count for a vehicle falls the agency              
 sample size thresholds, the appropriate size error flag is set in              
 VTSAMF. Processing continues.                                                  
                                                                                
NOTES ON VEHICLES                                                               
-----------------                                                               
                                                                                
  For schedule runs and the VXV report certain rules regarding vehicle          
identity are observed. For other reports these rules are irrelevent.            
                                                                                
     - Multiple entries for the same vehicle are allowed.                       
                                                                                
     - The insert count for a vehicle may be zero.                              
                                                                                
     - For non-prototyped vehicles (VTPRODUP = 0), two schedule lines           
       with the same VTQID but different VTVID's are considered to be           
       for the same vehicle. (The VTVID's are merely different                  
       aliases.)                                                                
                                                                                
     - For prototyped vehicles (VTPRODUP not = 0), two lines with the           
       same VTQID but different VTVID's are for two different vehicles          
       based on the same prototype.                                             
                                                                                
     - For any two lines for the same vehicle the fields VTCADJ and             
       VTPRODUP must be identical.                                              
                                                                                
     - Two lines for the same vehicle may have different VTIMPF's.              
       For instance, one line could represent 1/2 page inserts with             
       an impact factor of .600 and another could be for full page              
       inserts with a factor of 1.000.                                          
                                                                                
QSPECS                                                                          
------                                                                          
                                                                                
    These QSPECS must be present for each vehicle for an NRS type               
 readership survey (single issue measurement).                                  
                                                                                
     'VEH' is the vehicle QSPEC code (VTQID).                                   
                                                                                
    1) VEH.AIR    - Avg. issue readership.                                      
                                                                                
    2) VEH.PG1    - readership probability group 1.                             
       VEH.PG2    -               ''             2.                             
       VEH.PG3    -               ''             3.                             
         '                                                                      
         '                                                                      
       VEH.PGN    -               ''             N.                             
                                                                                
       For NRS there are three probability groups.                              
                                                                                
READREX INTERNAL TABLES                                                         
-----------------------                                                         
                                                                                
    READREX is very careful to preserve data for repeated use within            
  a call and for possible use in subsequent calls. Note that a single           
  request may produce multiple calls if there is more than one schedule         
  or target. READREX data are saved from one call to the next and one           
  request to the next.                                                          
                                                                                
    The processing involved in extracting this data is not                      
 insignificant, not only in file access but in counting and weighting           
 the bit vectors. Extraordinairy efforts to preserve it are justified.          
                                                                                
    READREX saves data in the following tables-                                 
                                                                                
     a) WVTAB-   global data for each wave/target.                              
     b) CNTAB-   vehicle counts.                                                
     c) PRTAB-   pair-wise nets.                                                
     d) QVTAB-   an index to the 'vector space' where the bit vectors           
                 are saved.                                                     
                                                                                
    It is the 'vector space' that uses the bulk of the storage.                 
                                                                                
NOTES ON READREX PROCESSING                                                     
---------------------------                                                     
                                                                                
  The first time MPREADREX is called-                                           
                                                                                
     - COVAIL is used to obtain all available storage (leaving enough           
       for a subsequent load of the reach/frequency module (RFMOD).             
                                                                                
  On the first call for a new SURVEY (not wave)-                                
                                                                                
     - a core map is developed. This is dependent on the bit and                
       weight vector lengths.                                                   
                                                                                
  For each new 'call'-                                                          
                                                                                
     - The processing command table is scanned to determine what data           
       are needed. (CMDSCAN)                                                    
                                                                                
     - The data vector table is examined and an internal vehicle list           
       is built. (BVLIST)                                                       
                                                                                
     - If the R/F module is required, the one specified in RXRFMODN is          
       loaded, unless it is already in core. Any previous R/F module is         
       deleted.                                                                 
                                                                                
     - Each wave is processed individually and combined with the                
       previous ones - see below  (PROCWAVE)                                    
                                                                                
     - After all waves are processed data are set in the data vector            
       table and certain adjustments are made, particularly factoring           
       all the numbers to the base wave (the first one specified).              
       Also various arrays are created, if needed, for passing the R/F          
       module.  (ARSET)                                                         
                                                                                
     - if it is a schedule evaluation run, the R/F module is called to          
       get the freqeuncy distributions. (SCHDPROC)                              
                                                                                
     - for reach extrapolation reports, R/F module is used to obtain            
       the reach data. (RCHNPROC)                                               
                                                                                
 For each wave- (PROCWAVE)                                                      
                                                                                
     - Survey counts and target and base counts and vectors are                 
       extracted, if they have not been done for a previous call.               
                                                                                
     - C1's are computed, if needed, and set in the vehicle list.               
       (C1PROC)                                                                 
                                                                                
     - C2's are computed, if needed, and set in the vehicle list.               
       (C2PROC)                                                                 
                                                                                
     - Pairwise data for schedules and the VXV report are computed and          
       set directly in the data vector table. (ajusted later by                 
       ARSET).  (PAIRPROC)                                                      
                                                                                
