         TITLE 'NBASE'                                                          
Macro that generates a set of code to initialise a module which is the base or  
root phase of a program. A double word aligned work area MUST also be provided  
(minimum length if not used by program is 3D) and named in the parameter list.  
                                                                                
(Name)    NBASE size,progid(,Rb1,...,RbN),WORK=worka(RR=Rx) (,CLEAR=YES)        
                                                                                
       or                                                                       
                                                                                
(Name)    NBASE size,progid,worka(,Rb1,...,RbN) (,RR=Rx) (CLEAR=YES)            
                                                                                
                                                                                
Generates standard set of register equates (see REQUS)                          
Sets RB as base register and Rb1-RbN as optional extra base registers.          
Sets RC and RD to point into work area with operating system linkages.          
Optionally sets a relocation factor in a register named by RR=Rx.               
Optionally clears the area of working storage requested.                        
                                                                                
A work area must be provided and named with WORK=worka or as a third positional 
parameter. If worka is the name of a label of a C,H,F,D type area then an LA    
instruction is generated. If worka is specified with A(worka), V(worka),        
=A(worka), or =V(worka) then a L instruction is generated. The first four words 
of the work area are initialised as follows:                                    
                                                                                
Word 1 - Middle four characters of CL8'progid'                                  
Word 2 - Zero (backward link to previous area)                                  
Word 3 - Forward link to next area                                              
Word 4 - Value of MVS R1 parameter list pointer (zero for DOS)                  
                                                                                
RC is always set to point to workarea+16 and is the address of the root programs
working storage. The size of the root's area is given by the SIZE parameter. If 
size is an integer it is the number of double words of the work area required by
the root. If size is an expression it is assumed that the expression gives the  
size in bytes and NBASE calculates the number of double words required.         
                                                                                
RD is always set to point to the next available location in the work area -     
which is after the 16 byte header and the amount of storage requested by the    
size parameter. If CLEAR=YES is specified the amount of storage requested by    
size is cleared to binary zeros.                                                
                                                                                
If the root does not require any of the work area for its own uses then omit    
size or set it to zero. If the root does not call any subroutines then the      
minimum size of worka is three double words. If the root calls subroutines then 
worka must be large enough to satisfy the longest working storage chain.        
                                                                                
A module initialized by NBASE should exit by XBASE.                             
