         TITLE 'NMOD1'                                                          
Macro generates a set of code to initialise a called module. The code generated 
by this macro should be the called module's first executable instructions.      
                                                                                
(Name)   NMOD1 size,progid(,Rb1,...,RbN)(,RR=RX)(,CLEAR=YES)                    
                                                                                
Generate standard set of register equates. (see REQUS).                         
Saves calling program's registers RE-RC at 12(RD).                              
Sets RB as base register and Rb1-RbN as optional extra base registers.          
Sets RC to point to working storage area of size double words at 72(RD).        
Saves the middle four characters of CL8'progid' at 0(RD).                       
Stores the link forward to the next storage area at 8(RD).                      
Sets RD to point to the end of requested size of working storage.               
Stores the link backward to the previous storage area at 4(RD).                 
Optionally sets a relocation factor in a register Rx named by RR=Rx.            
Optionally clears the working storage area requested by size.                   
                                                                                
                                                                                
The first positional parameter, size, can be quoted as an integer or as         
any absolute expression. If size is an integer it is the size in double         
words of the amount of storage required. If size is an expression it is the size
in bytes of the amount of storage required (this gets adjusted to the number of 
double words required). The size in bytes of the amount of storaage requested is
contained in a halfword at 20(RB) and the name of the module is contained in    
CL8'progid' at 22(RB).                                                          
                                                                                
A module initialized by NMOD1 should exit by XMOD1 or XIT1.                     
                                                                                
