         TITLE 'PATCHER'                                                        
Module allows temporary patches to programs without relinking them. Only core   
resident code can be patched (i.e., you cannot patch overlays). The CIL is not  
affected.                                                                       
                                                                                
Input cards are as follows (all cards begin in column 1).                       
                                                                                
Program Name Card            This card must immediately follow the // EXEC      
                             PATCHER card.  It contains the name of the program 
                             being executed.                                    
                                                                                
DSP Card                     This card is used to define a base address         
(format DSP aaaaaa)          for patches.  If omitted, patch addresses are      
                             assumed to be relative to the partition start      
                             address.  Otherwise the value here is added to     
                             the partition start in calculating the actual      
                             patch address. Multiple DSP cards may be used.     
                             The last DSP card preceding each patch is used.    
                             Note for self-relocating programs, use DSP 000078. 
                                                                                
REP Card                     This card is used to replace bytes in the          
(format REP aaaaaa data...)  specified phase.                                   
                                                                                
VER Card                     This card is used to verify data before patching   
(format VER aaaaaa data...)  it.  This card is optional.                        
                                                                                
                                                                                
Notes - Data is in hex, 2 characters per byte up to column 80. Continuation     
        cards are not supported. An error in any card causes a PDUMP of PATCHER 
        with an appropriate error message.                                      
                                                                                
        Data cards are printed on SYSLST.                                       
                                                                                
 Example of Patcher Job Setup                                                   
 ----------------------------                                                   
                                                                                
     // JOB                                                                     
     // EXEC PATCHER                                                            
     progname                                                                   
     DSP 000130                                                                 
     VER 000428 4780                                                            
     REP 000428 47F0                                                            
     /*                                                                         
     (your program's control and/or data cards)                                 
     /&                                                                         
