         TITLE 'PARSNIP'                                                        
                                                                                
PARSNIP - PARSER FOR FIELD=VALUE TYPE EXPRESSIONS                               
-------------------------------------------------                               
                                                                                
Program source - DDPARSNIP                                                      
Control dsect  - DDPARSNIPD                                                     
Relo name      - PARSNIP                                                        
Phase name     - T00A75                                                         
                                                                                
  PARSNIP is a general purpose, fairly low level routine to separate            
the components of a series of 'field=value' type expressions and                
present them individually to the caller. It is not an editor; it only           
splits the expression up, it doesn't examine the components beyond              
figuring out how long they are and whether they are alpha or numeric.           
It could, of course, be used within a higher level, table driven,               
options line type editor.                                                       
                                                                                
  The program can be used to replace SCANNER, since its functionality           
is a superset of it.  However, the way its arguments are set up and the         
structure of the output block are different, so the necessary changes           
would have to be made.                                                          
                                                                                
EXPRESSIONS                                                                     
-----------                                                                     
                                                                                
  PARSNIP will handle expressions of the following forms:                       
                                                                                
      - field       (stand-alone)                                               
      - field=value                                                             
      - field=(value,value,value...)                                            
                                                                                
   Both field and value can be simple or complex:                               
                                                                                
      - name                                                                    
      - name(attribute,attribute....)                                           
                                                                                
   There are four types of separators:                                          
                                                                                
      - divider                normally '='; divides field from value.          
                                                                                
      - field separator        normally ','; separates fields, but              
                               within brackets it separates values.             
                                                                                
      - value separator        separates values inside or outside               
                               brackets.                                        
                                                                                
      - attribute separator    separates attributes.                            
                                                                                
   The separators can all be set by the caller to one or more alternate         
values. Blank can be used for all separators except the divider.  The           
right and left brackets are invariant.                                          
                                                                                
   Leading and trailing blanks are removed and never counted in the             
component length, but blanks imbedded within a component are left               
in place.                                                                       
                                                                                
  Examples of expressions-                                                      
                                                                                
    A=B               B is the value of field A                                 
    A=B,C=D           B is a value of A, D a value of C                         
    A(B)              B is an attribute of field A                              
    A(B,C)            B and C are attributes                                    
    A=B,C             B is value, C is stand-alone field                        
    A=(B,C)           B and C are both values                                   
    A=B+C             as above, if + is value separator                         
    A=B(C,D)          B is a value, C and D are attributes                      
    A=(B(C,D),E)      as above, and E is a second value                         
                                                                                
   PARSNIP does NOT handle expressions like A=(B=C) or A=B=C.                   
                                                                                
OUTPUT                                                                          
------                                                                          
                                                                                
   PARSNIP creates a table with one entry for each component. The               
entries are covered by the dsect in DDPARSNIPD.  Unlike SCANNER,                
PARSNIP returns a field and its value in separate entries.                      
                                                                                
   The table can be processed either sequentially or via pointers               
within each entry. It will be in the order of the components                    
in the string and will be terminated by a null.                                 
                                                                                
PARAMETER LIST                                                                  
--------------                                                                  
                                                                                
   param 1    byte 0     l'input, 0=screen field header                         
                   1-3   a(input)                                               
                                                                                
   param 2    byte 0     on input, max components  (0=no limit)                 
                         on output, actual number of components                 
                   1-3   a(output table)                                        
                                                                                
   param 3    byte 0     on input, control byte   (see DDPARSNIPD)              
                         on output, error code or null                          
                   1-3   a(separator overrides) or null                         
                                                                                
      The separator override list must be in the following format-              
                                                                                
         al1(n),c'....'   n replacement values for divider                      
         al1(n),c'....'   n replacement values for field separator              
         al1(n),c'....'   n replacement values for value separator              
         al1(n),c'....'   n replacement values for attribute separator          
                                                                                
     The default list is-                                                       
                                                                                
         al1(1),c'='      default divider is =                                  
         al1(1),c','      default field separator is ,                          
         al1(1),c','      default value separator is ,                          
         al1(1),c','      default attribute separator is ,                      
                                                                                
     If the override list is present, it must contain values for                
   each type of divider/separator.                                              
                                                                                
NOTE:                                                                           
      PARSNIP's full functionality is only in place if the appropriate          
bits are set in the control byte.  Therefore, pay close attention to            
the equates found in DDPARSNIPD to determine to bit settings needed             
for your particular application.                                                
