         TITLE 'RFP & SPOOF'                                                    
                                                                                
   The RFP system allows a user to define a group of requests that              
should be submitted on the same night. Assigning a request to a group           
is done by entering 'FILE' in the Dest. field and the GROUP name in the         
Others field of a standard request screen. GENCON handles this                  
automatically and establishes a control block (GERFPIOD) at APFPBLK.            
If there are no symbolics in the request, nothing else needs to be done         
to add a request to a group.                                                    
                                                                                
If SYMBOLICS are to be included in a SPOOF request, then                        
                                                                                
1. Establish symbolic in SJR/C/GEN record=DDICT. Make sure it has an            
   RFP validation #. See GERFPIOD for options. #9 is for dates                  
   validated using PERVAL and stored in MMMDD/YY-MMMDD/YY format.               
   This action creates an entry in the system dictionary for later              
   use.                                                                         
                                                                                
2. ++INCLUDE GERFPIOD in request validation program. Load a register            
   with contents of ARFPBLK to use DSECT. If trying to add a request            
   to an RFP GROUP, GEGENCON will have set this address with ATIA.              
                                                                                
3. The request validation program must validate the symbolic by                 
   matching input to symbolics in the list at RFPVSYMB in RFPBLK and            
   replace input with the escape sequence at RFPVSYME. Because of this          
   replacement, any matching of input should include matching to the            
   escape sequence. Use dictionary equate for matching.                         
      Escape sequence is of form                                                
         AL1(escape seq id),AL2(dictionary equate),AL1(data length)             
      The length in the escape sequence (RFPVSYME+2) must be set to the         
   maximum length that input for the symbolic might have. Also, this            
   much space must be provided in the input field. i.e. If PERIOD is            
   a symbolic for a date range (MMMDD/YY-MMMDD/YY) then the escape              
   sequence length must be set to 17 and the input field length                 
   increased from 6 to 17 bytes. If this appeared in the middle of              
   a field then space must be inserted to accommodate 17 bytes                  
   (,PERIOD, to ,PERIOD           ,) and field length adjusted.                 
      Any validation that depends on the symbolic having a definite             
   value must be bypassed. In the print writer a date table is created          
   from the Period field and it had to be bypassed.                             
                                                                                
3. Any field containing symbolic(s) must fit on 1 REQTWA card. Same as          
   you would create for a TSO submission of the request. This means             
   field length is restricted to 64 bytes. If this is a problem, then           
   force symbolics to be at back end of field. The actual requirement           
   is a symbolic must lie entirely on one card and the 64 byte                  
   restriction ensures this.                                                    
