         TITLE 'SCRGEN -- FACPAK SCREEN GENERATOR'                              
SCRGEN (formerly SUPERGEN) converts a deck of screen specification cards into a 
DSECT that is catalogued to the PANVALET library, and a CSECT that is link-     
edited to a load module library (e.g., DDS.TESTLIB).                            
                                                                                
A screen specification deck consists of a screen card (S) and a number of field 
cards (F) that define fields and may have continuations -                       
                                                                                
Screen Card                                                                     
-----------                                                                     
                                                                                
Column  1      S                                                                
Columns 2-3    Screen code ss                                                   
Column  4      Test character (e.g. A, B, C) to be appended to phase name       
                (Note: this overrides any OPTION TEST= control card)            
Columns 5-8    Program code pppp generates CSECT ppppss & DSECT ppppssD         
Column  10     1=Clear screen before (3270)                                     
Column  11     1=Clear screen after (3270)                                      
Column  12     Non-space suppress DSECT & DS XL64 statements                    
Columns 13-15  3 character prefix for DSECT names (see field col 19)            
Column  16     Non-space does not generate tags at end of DSECT                 
Column  17     Non-space does not generate BOOK= LVL= stamp                     
Column  30     Non-space treats card as 72 cols only (default is 80)            
                                                                                
Field Card(s)                                                                   
-------------                                                                   
                                                                                
Column  1      F                                                                
Columns 2-3    screen code ss                                                   
Column  4      reserved                                                         
Columns 5-6    Row number or                                                    
               * in 5 or 6 indicates same line as previous card                 
               or the next line (if the column number is not higher) or         
               +n adds a number of lines to line number of previous.            
Columns 7-8    Column number                                                    
Columns 9-11   Length of field (1-247 bytes)                                    
Column  12     N = do not delete blanks from input fields                       
Column  13     N=numeric   A=alpha(default) L=Lower case                        
Column  14     P=protected U=unprotected(default)                               
Column  15     H=high intensity Z=zero intensity N=normal(default)              
Column  16     M=modify data (treat field as having been input)                 
Column  17     N=do not transmit T=transmit(default)                            
Column  18     I=insert cursor (cursor will be positioned here)                 
Columns 19-22  1-4 byte optional field label generates a pppf(fff)h label on the
               header and a pppf(fff) label on the field where ppp is the screen
               card prefix.  If the field has an extended header (see cols.     
               25-27) the extension will be labeled pppf(fff)x.                 
Column  23     Reserved for extended Symbol set.                                
Column  24     S=this field applies to US only                                  
               K=this field applies to UK only                                  
Columns 25-27  Unique Id number (range 1..255) for this field.  Causes the      
               generation of an eight-byte header extension for the field. A    
               zero (0) in this field causes the generation of the header       
               extension without an id number.                                  
Column  28     Extended Highlighting B=Blink,R=ReverseVideo,U=Underscore        
Column  29     Extended Colour B=Blue,R=Red,P=Pink,G=Green,T=Turquoise          
                               Y=Yellow,W=White                                 
Column  30     C indicates that a continuation card follows                     
Columns 31-80  Data to be formatted on the screens. Note that if col 30 of the  
     or 31-72  screen card is non-space then only cols 31-72 will be considered 
               to hold data.                                                    
               On first continuation card only .....                            
Columns 25-27  Stereo seq number (range 1..255) for this field. Use this field  
               to define the stereo field sequence number of a new out-of-      
               sequence field.                                                  
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
Notes                                                                           
-----                                                                           
                                                                                
Continuation cards are blank in columns 4-14 with data in 31-72 (or 80).        
First continuation card can define stereo sequence number in 25-27              
                                                                                
Row number columns and lengths should be right justified and may have leading   
blanks.                                                                         
                                                                                
Unprotected fields need a space before and after for special characters.        
                                                                                
                                                                                
Use of SCRGEN with PANVALET                                                     
-----------------------------                                                   
                                                                                
A screen specification deck should be added to the PANVALET library using the   
naming convention "sspppoo", where ss=system, ppp=program, and oo=screen        
overlay (e.g., ACLFMFF).                                                        
                                                                                
Then by using a card with P in col 1 and book-name in cols 2-11, SCRGEN will    
read the deck directly from disk. In this case the DSECT will be catalogued to  
PANVALET with the name sspppccD.                                                
                                                                                
The input listing will show the bookname and level number and will generate     
sequence numbers so that updating of source books is simple. Note that PANVALET 
columnar updating is most helpful.                                              
                                                                                
The latest version of SCRGEN is compatible with PANAPT and requires the first   
card to be *GEN. This by default also means the screen must be of language      
type DATA.                                                                      
                                                                                
                                                                                
Data Dictionaries                                                               
-----------------                                                               
                                                                                
By default, the data dictionary associated with the screen source name will be  
used. E.g., if the screen member is ACLFMF3, then ACDDEQUS will be used.        
However, if an override data dictionary is needed, you may ++INCLUDE it. The    
++INCLUDE should be placed after the *GEN statement, but before the screen card.
                                                                                
                                                                                
Option Cards                                                                    
------------                                                                    
                                                                                
OPTION TEST             Generates TEST phase ppppsst                            
                                                                                
OPTION TEST=x           Generates TEST phase ppppssx (x s/b A,B,C). This option 
                        will be ignored if a phase override character is        
                        specified in column 4 of the screen card.               
                        Note: OPTION TEST=A is the default.                     
                                                                                
OPTION PHASE=pppp       Overrides the pppp in subsequent screen card(s).        
                                                                                
OPTION NOTAGS           Does not generate tags at the end of DSECT. This means  
                        that if you use the same DSECT prefix for overlay       
                        screens, you will not get duplicates in assemblies.     
                                                                                
OPTION UK or US         Generates UK fields in the US or vice versa (see field  
                        card columns 23-24.)                                    
                                                                                
OPTION XATB=B           Generates default base colour attributes for field with 
                        no colour defined.                                      
