         TITLE 'SPOT TERMINOLOGY AND OVERVIEW'                                  
                                                                                
DDS client groups                                                               
  Agencies                                                                      
    Companies which provided a full service to advertisers. This includes       
    initial marketing strategy support. Planning the distribution of advertising
    dollars. Execution of media plans.  Production and scheduling of            
    commercials. Payment to vendors for services provided, and analysis of      
    audience delivery. Agencies work either on commission or flat rates.        
                                                                                
  Advertisers                                                                   
    Companies which have a product to sell. Some advertisers do their own media 
    buying and planning. Some have one advertising agency, while others have    
    many agencies.                                                              
                                                                                
  Buying services                                                               
    Companies which execute media plans. This usually means simply buying the   
    media time. Buying services are sometimes paid based on the achievment of   
    the media goal.                                                             
                                                                                
Medias Supported By SPOTPAK                                                     
  Spot                                                                          
    Spot media is any broadcast medium which can be bought at a local market    
    level.                                                                      
                                                                                
    Radio                                                                       
      Buys made on this media are usually for a broad day and time. These buys  
      usually have large numbers of spots at low prices. Radio is used by       
      national advertisers to communicate with a more narrow audience than is   
      delivered by TV. This medium is also used to increase the frequency of a  
      message.                                                                  
                                                                                
    TV                                                                          
      Buys made on this media usually support network buys. Regional and test   
      advertising are also users of this medium. Buys are normally made         
      for a particular program.                                                 
                                                                                
  Network                                                                       
    National advertisers use the medium as the workhorse of thier marketing     
    strategy. U.S. agencies are not longer using SPOTPAK for network but        
    SPOTPAK is used for network by Canadian agencies.                           
                                                                                
    Radio                                                                       
                                                                                
    Canadian TV                                                                 
                                                                                
  Combined                                                                      
    Canadian agencies report the total spot and network buy on the market       
    level. The SPOTPAK system supports this as media 'C'                        
<PA>                                                                            
Estimates                                                                       
  The estimate controls the global parameters of a buy. Dates, demos, rating    
  books to use, and authourized dollars are some of the items controlled by by  
  the estimate header. Accounting totals (buckets) are also kept by estimate to 
  allow rapid reporting without reading all the detail buy information.         
                                                                                
  ALL                                                                           
    When a request is made for 'ALL' estimates it means: Process all the        
    estimates which fall between the requested date in estimate order.          
                                                                                
  NO                                                                            
    When a request is made for 'NO' estimates it means: Process all the         
    estimates which fall between the requested date as a combined group.        
                                                                                
  Series                                                                        
    When a request is made for a series of estimates it means: process all      
    estimates which fall between the requested date and the requested           
    range of estimate numbers as a combined group.                              
                                                                                
  Estimate filters                                                              
    When a request is made for an estimate filter it means: process all         
    estimates which fall between the requested date and have the specified      
    filter code in the estimate as a combined group.                            
                                                                                
Market group                                                                    
  A group of markets which has been set up by an agency either to sequence a    
  report or to request a report for a subset of markets. This is a hierachical  
  number with up to three levels. Market gruops are also set up to allow        
  reports to be run by office if the agency has market based buying offices.    
                                                                                
Product group                                                                   
  A group of products which has been set up by an agency either to sequence a   
  report or to request a report for a subset of products. This is a hierachical 
  number with up to three levels.                                               
                                                                                
Office                                                                          
  Agency offices organized by client                                            
    Each office buys all the markets for a particular client. Office code is    
    in the client header.                                                       
                                                                                
  Agency offices organized by market                                            
    Each office buys a set of markets accross clients. Office code must be      
    determined from the market group records.                                   
                                                                                
<PA>                                                                            
Paying reps                                                                     
  The paying rep is represented as a number on the station master record. This  
  number is used as a link to the Name and Address which will appear on the     
  check which is written as a result of paying a station.                       
                                                                                
Special reps                                                                    
  Special reps are represented by a number on an individual buy line. They may  
  also be coded in the estimate header. If coded on the estimate header all buys
  are seeded with this number at the time they are bought. Special reps are     
  usually used to code buys which have been assigned rates which are            
  inconsistant with normal market rates.                                        
                                                                                
Exclusion codes                                                                 
  This code is on the client header and is used by a limited number of reports  
  to exclude clients when a request has been made for all clients.              
                                                                                
Buy ids                                                                         
  Buy ids are used to group buylines together as they appear on the rep         
  contract. They are used mostly by Canadian agencies and are a filter rather   
  than a direct read funtion.                                                   
                                                                                
Affiliation                                                                     
  Many stations are affiliated with a network. Reports can be requested to      
  filter on a particular affiliation. Traffic also makes use of the             
  affiliation when distributing commercials. The affiliation is for a station   
  and is defined on the station master record.                                  
                                                                                
Program type                                                                    
  Some agencies put a program type code on each buyline. The buylines can       
  be filtered by this code.                                                     
                                                                                
Daypart                                                                         
  Dayparts can be defined as blocks of time or specialized programming which    
  have the same audience characteristics and/or relative cost.                  
                                                                                
  Menu                                                                          
    The daypart menu controls how the dayparts are added together and what      
    codes print on the media reports. Daypart menus are specified at either     
    the estimate or request level.                                              
                                                                                
  Detail                                                                        
    Daypart detail control controls the various daypart/spot length options     
    which are available on the spot reports.                                    
<PA>                                                                            
Goal                                                                            
  Goals are the weekly objectives of a particular estimate. They are input by   
  daypart and spot length. The objectives may be expressed as a combination     
  of dollars and demos, or optionally, as CPP/M and dollars or demos.           
                                                                                
  CPM                                                                           
    CPM is defined as cost per thousand and is derived by cost/impressions.     
                                                                                
  CPP                                                                           
    CPP is defined as cost per point and is derived by cost/rating points       
                                                                                
  CPP Guide                                                                     
    The CPP guide is a special type of goal record on which estimates of the    
    CPP for each market and daypart are stored. A CPP guide always has a        
    product code of x'ff' and a length of 30. Use of this record allows an      
    agency to input only the dollars or demos in the goal record. The spot      
    system will calculate the missing item from the CPP guide.                  
                                                                                
Files                                                                           
  Station                                                                       
    The station file is used to keep information which crosses clients. It is   
    a sequential file. The keys are normally alphabetic.                        
                                                                                
  Spot                                                                          
    The spot file is an indexed sequential having multiple pointers to the same 
    record. This is the primary database in the spot system.                    
                                                                                
  Demos                                                                         
    The spot system uses the standard DDS demo files for demo lookups. Demo     
    estimates are stored on each buyline.                                       
                                                                                
    Reporting                                                                   
      The valid types of demo information reported are:                         
        1. Purchased - The demo values currently on the buyline.                
        2. Ordered   - The demo values currently on the lockin file.            
        3. Purchased rerated - Demos which are recalculated based on the        
                               request and the buyline description times.       
        3. Affidavit rerated - Demos which are recalculated based on the        
                               request and the affidavit day and time.          
                                                                                
Active pointers                                                                 
  Directory keys which in general mock the key as it appears in the data        
  record. This is the normal key by which a record is accessed.                 
                                                                                
Passive pointers                                                                
  Directory keys which have been created to allow alternate sequential reading  
  of the file.                                                                  
<PA>                                                                            
Buying Modes                                                                    
  Brand                                                                         
    Each buyline can have only one product. No cost overrides are allowed and   
    no POL reporting is allowed.                                                
                                                                                
  POL                                                                           
    Full spotpak features are supported when buying in POL mode.                
                                                                                
  Brand/POL                                                                     
    Each buyline can have only one product but all other spotpak features       
    are supported.                                                              
                                                                                
  Brand/POL radio                                                               
    Same as brand/POL except that the cost override field is reduced to allow   
    number of spots to be input.                                                
                                                                                
Dates                                                                           
  ES                                                                            
    Equivalent to estimate start and end dates when doing one estimate.         
                                                                                
  Fiscal base mo/day                                                            
    Inputs on the spot profile which control what day the year starts on for a  
    particular client.                                                          
                                                                                
  Date control                                                                  
    Input on the spot profile. This determines what the structure of the weeks, 
    months,and quarters is for a client.                                        
                                                                                
Reporting control                                                               
  Spot profile                                                                  
    The Spot profile is defined as program '00' in the control profile program. 
    This profile is the highest level of options available and must be supported
    by all spot programs.                                                       
                                                                                
  Report profile                                                                
    Each individual program may optionally use this to control options available
    to that report. As a general rule all request options should be included on 
    the report profile. Additional options may appear here that are not         
    supported on the request.                                                   
                                                                                
  Request options                                                               
    Request options are available at the time of request and override report    
    profile options.                                                            
<PA>                                                                            
Ordered                                                                         
  Ordered data is data from the lockin file. A snapspot is taken of the buy file
  at a point in time and saved on this file for future reporting.               
                                                                                
Purchased                                                                       
  Purchased data is data from the buy file as is currently exists.              
                                                                                
Affidavit                                                                       
  Affidavit data is data which comes from the station invoice. This data shows  
  the exact day and time which any spot has run.                                
                                                                                
Data compare                                                                    
  This controls what data will appear on the media reports. Most media reports  
  compare two sets of data and this controls what those two are.                
                                                                                
Equivalencing                                                                   
  Equivalencing occurs when different spot lengths are be bought and a          
  composite CPP/M is desired. In effect the dollars or points are adjusted      
  to equivalence all spots to the same spot length.                             
  Record                                                                        
    The equivalence record defines what the equivalence base should be and      
    what factors should be applied to each spot length to end up in this base.  
                                                                                
  Demos                                                                         
    Demos are eqiuvalenced by: (DEMOS x EQUIVALENCE FACTOR) / 1000              
                                                                                
  Dollars                                                                       
    Dollars are equivalenced by: (1000/EQUIVALENCE FACTOR) x DOLLARS            
                                                                                
Pre-empted                                                                      
  Spots which have been ordered but not run and will not be madegood.           
                                                                                
Missed                                                                          
  Spots which have been ordered but not run and will be madegood.               
                                                                                
Makegood                                                                        
  Spots which a station substitutes for spots originally ordered. There may     
  be any number of makegood spots for one missed spot.                          
<PA>                                                                            
Market Weighting                                                                
  Market weigthing is done to convert ratings into a form which can be added    
  together across markets. The weights to be used come from the market record   
  and are generally the percentage of U.S. homes which are included in the      
  market.                                                                       
                                                                                
Primary Demo weighting                                                          
  If an agency selects this option the weights will be calculated from the      
  demo file and are based on the primary demo rather than homes.                
                                                                                
Weighted demos                                                                  
  Demographics may be created from other demographics by setting up a list      
  of demos and their relative wieghts on the estimate header. This is           
  a seldom used feature of the system.                                          
                                                                                
HUT/SVI adjustments                                                             
  A file exists in the demo system which is used to adjust demographics from    
  one month to another. The system allows the user to specifiy a month to       
  adjust to and a book to adjust from. The user can also specify AUTO ajust     
  which means; Adjust the book to the buy description dates using the number    
  of weeks as the wieghting factor for each month.                              
                                                                                
Latest book                                                                     
  Use the rating service book which immediately preceeds the buy end date       
  to do automatic demo lookups.                                                 
                                                                                
Demo menus                                                                      
  Demo menus are used to report on a different set of demos than the estimate   
  header contains.                                                              
                                                                                
Sweep class                                                                     
  Markets are swept by the rating services with different frequencies. Agencies 
  are able to input a sweep class into the market record which can then be used 
  to control reporting options.                                                 
<PA>                                                                            
Spill                                                                           
  Since ratings are market based a staion may deliver ratings in more than      
  one market. The delivery outside of the primary market for a station is       
  called SPILL. Normally spill is taken care of in the planning systems and     
  a buyer does not have to consider it when making a buy. It is however         
  reasonable to post on it.                                                     
                                                                                
Spill options                                                                   
  Spill may be reported or suppressed at both the detail and summary level      
  on any spot report. Spill goals are not supported in the spot system.         
                                                                                
-S buys                                                                         
  A coding structure exists which forces the media reporting system to          
  use the buyer's estimated demographics when rerating a buyline. This          
  feature is intended to be used for special programming which does not         
  appear in the rating book.                                                    
                                                                                
Rerate type                                                                     
  On the request. P=purchased rerated I=Affidavit rerated                       
                                                                                
Weekly Data                                                                     
  If a program does not run for all four weeks of a survey the rating services  
  provide separate figures for the sum of the weeks in which it did run.        
  Several options are available to define how the spot system makes use of      
  this data. They are internal to the demo lookup routines and beyond the       
  scope of this writeup.                                                        
