         TITLE 'STXITER'                                                        
Module provides limited core dumps of PSW/registers and user designated areas   
on program checks.                                                              
                                                                                
To minimize dumps, STXITER should be called as soon as possible. You may return 
to STXITER at any time with a new dump list, which replaces the old list.       
                                                                                
Parameter 1                  A(dump list)                                       
                                                                                
The format of the dump list is a series of start-end addresses, or a start      
address and a length. A maximum of 10 pairs may be specified.                   
                                                                                
If the end address is less than the start address, it is assumed to be a        
length.  Lengths must be less than 65536.                                       
                                                                                
The last end address (or length) must contain X'80' in byte 0.                  
                                                                                
 Examples                                                                       
 --------                                                                       
                                                                                
DMPLIST  DS    0F   Note - To avoid 'GOTO1' problems, do not put the            
                           name of the list on the first address constant.      
         DC    A(buffer,bufferx)   Dump buffer to bufferx                       
         DC    A(buffer,4000)      Dump buffer to buffer+4000-1                 
                                                                                
         ORG   *-4                 These three cards allow                      
         DC    X'80'                 additions to be inserted                   
         ORG                           without other changes.                   
                                                                                
Note - STXITER uses PDUMPER, so this should be included in linkedit.            
