         TITLE 'Tempstr - Online Temporary Storage'                             
Introduction                                                                    
------------                                                                    
TEMPSTR is a DDS disk file used for online temporary storage. Each              
terminal (or LUID) has a number of sessions labeled a,b,c,d,....                
and each session has a fixed number of 18432 byte records or pages.             
The first page (0) of each session is used to save the TWA screen in            
the first part of the record, and to save system checkpoint data in the         
last part of the record. The space between the end of the screen and            
the start of the FACPAK save area can be used by the online application.        
Pages 1 thru 4 can be used by the application to save information across        
transactions in the same session.                                               
                                                                                
Old style TEMPSTR                                                               
-----------------                                                               
Previously FACPAK only supported two sessions a and b, and there were           
12 TEMPSTR pages allocated per terminal. Pages 0,1,2,3,4 were used for          
session a, page 5 only by printer terminals, pages 6,7,8,9,10 were used         
for session b, and page 11 was used by service requests for commom saved        
storage.                                                                        
                                                                                
TEMPSTR pages can be read or written logically by specifing the page            
number 0 thru 11. Applications should never read or write page 0 as it          
is managed by FACPAK. Only printers can read/write page 5, and only             
service requests can read/write page 11. Normal applications specify            
pages 1 thru 4 in DMCB+8(1) and normally use the TIA storage area as it         
is always the same size as a TEMPSTR page i.e. 18K.                             
                                                                                
If RF is loaded with the page number 1 thru 4, and ATIA contains the            
address of the TIA then the following will read or write an 18K record          
                                                                                
         GOTO1 =V(DATAMGR),DMCB,=C'DMREAD',=C'TEMPSTR',((RF),0),ATIA            
                                                                                
         GOTO1 =V(DATAMGR),DMCB,=C'DMWRT',=C'TEMPSTR',((RF),0),ATIA             
                                                                                
New style TEMPSTR                                                               
-----------------                                                               
When FACPAK was extended to support up to 8 sessions, each with 4               
pages available for each session to use as save storage, the order that         
pages are stored on TEMPEST changed. However, to support existing code          
page 11 can still be used to nominate the service request saved page,           
and printers can still refer to page 5. Normal applications using pages         
1 thru 4 are also unaffected by this change.                                    
                                                                                
The logical page number is passed in DMCB+8(1). If the high order X'80'         
bit is turned on then the physical page number is passed in in bottom           
seven bits of DMCB+8(1). The physical pages are as follows:                     
                                                                                
00 The current session's TWAS zero. Current session in UTL TSESSION.            
01 The service request save page                                                
                                                                                
02 Session a's last TWA zero                                                    
03 Session a's page 1                                                           
04 Session a's page 2                                                           
05 Session a's page 3                                                           
06 Session a's page 4                                                           
                                                                                
07 Session b's last TWA zero                                                    
08 Session b's page 1                                                           
09 Session b's page 2                                                           
10 Session b's page 3                                                           
11 Session b's page 4                                                           
                                                                                
12 Session c's last TWA zero                                                    
13 Session c's page 1                                                           
14 Session c's page 2                                                           
15 Session c's page 3                                                           
16 Session c's page 4                                                           
.. .......                                                                      
37 Session h's last TWA zero                                                    
38 Session h's page 1                                                           
39 Session h's page 2                                                           
40 Session h's page 3                                                           
41 Session h's page 4                                                           
                                                                                
Using TFM to read TEMPSTR pages                                                 
-------------------------------                                                 
You can display the current session's TEMPSTR pages in =TFM with a File         
name of TEMPSTR and a Record Id K,nn where nn is the page number in hex         
K,00 will show you TWA zero of current sesssion an K,01 will show you           
the saved page 01 of current session. If you input K,87 you will be             
looking at the last session b's TWA zero.                                       
                                                                                
Old Tempstr - Further details                                                   
-----------------------------                                                   
Three fields defined in FAPARMS that get moved to SSB.                          
                                                                                
SSBTWAS  Num of TWAS per terminal (12)                                          
SSBTWAM  Modulo for carving up tempstr into segments (10)                       
SSBTWAL  Record Length (18432)                                                  
                                                                                
Caller does DMREAD or DMWRT passing pagenum/termnum in DMCBW3. Get EOF          
if pagenum gt 11 or if termnum gt max terminal that will fit in file.           
If terminal number is zero it is extracted from the UTL of the caller.          
                                                                                
Assumption is that we have two sessions A and B (TSESSION=0 or 1) and           
that TWA 0 thru 4 are for session A and that 6 thru 10 are for the              
saved session B. TWA 5 not used. TWA 11 used for s/r save storage.              
Normal application programs refer to pages 0 thru 4 and s/rs also refer         
to page 11.                                                                     
                                                                                
The s/r =SVS,=RES,=SWS,=CLS all pass control to SRSVR00 which calles the        
routine FATWASVR. Terminal starts with a single session. It can create          
session B by entering =SVS from a current screen. This causes the single        
session to become the A session . The B session is an exact copy of the         
A session. This is done by copying twas 0,1,2,3,4 to twas 6,7,8,9,10.           
                                                                                
Another way of creating session B is to type in =PROGRAM,SVS whilst             
connected to a single session. This causes the current session to become        
the A session and the new program to be the B session. This can also be         
acheived by typing =CT,SVS from an existing single session when the             
existing session becomes the A and the program to which we connect from         
the connect screen becomes the new B session.                                   
                                                                                
Once two session have been established via a SVS function we can swap           
between then with the s/r =SWS (or PF2 on line 1). The swap function            
swaps twas 0 thru 4 with twas 6 thru 10 (20 i/os required). The current         
session (whether is the A or the B) is always twas 0 thru 4. The second         
session can be cleared by =CLS and the original saved session done via          
=SVS can be restored via =RES.                                                  
                                                                                
                                                                                
New style Tempstr - Further details                                             
-----------------------------------                                             
New extra fields will be defined in FAPARMS and moved to SSB                    
                                                                                
SSBSSMAX Maximum number of sessions. Nonzero means new tempstr active.          
SSBSSPGS Number of TWA pages per session (5).                                   
                                                                                
Each terminal will have two basic records plus 5 records per session. If        
we define SSBSSMAX=2 then this will be the same number of records as in         
the old style tempstr. But the usage will be different.                         
                                                                                
TWA 0     Is (as now) the current TWA 0 of the current session defined          
          by TSESSION. It also holds the globals and the broadcast info         
          and the checkpoint data for this terminal.                            
                                                                                
TWA 1     Is the s/r save record (current s/r save is twa 11).                  
                                                                                
TWA 2-6   Are the twa pages 0 thru 4 for session A                              
TWA 7-11  Are the twa pages 0 thru 4 for session B                              
TWA 12-16 Are the twa pages 0 thru 4 for session C                              
TWA 17... Etc etc                                                               
                                                                                
Datamgr will take the callers page number in DMCBW3(1) and fuss with it         
so that application programs and s/r's wont need changing. An action on         
page 11 will be transformed to TWA 2 and an action on pages 1 thru 4            
will cause record 2+TSESSION*(pagenum). TWA page 0 will be treated same         
as before. A new convention will be applied to read an actual TWA page.         
If the x'80' bit is on the the page number will not be transformed.             
                                                                                
Service Request                                                                 
---------------                                                                 
A new service reqest =SS (set session) will be used to control sessions.        
=SS,+  Up one session                                                           
=SS,-  Down one session                                                         
=SS,A  Go to session A                                                          
=SS,B  Go to session B                                                          
.....                                                                           
=SS,B,CT Set session to B and display connect screen                            
                                                                                
If =SS,B is input facpak will read TWA#0 from session B TWAs and display        
the screen. It will note in the UTL that B session is pending (ie the B         
screen is up but we have received no input from it). This process will          
be repeated for successive =SS s/rs or PFK equivalents leaving TSESSION         
to be the session from which we last did some input.                            
                                                                                
If input is received from a pending session then monitor will do the            
housekeeping as follows. Assume TSESSION is A and TSSOTHER (the other           
session) is C. The session flag TSSFLAG says session pending.                   
Read TWA 0.                                                                     
Save the globals and broadcast info from this twa.                              
Write back the TTWA to the TWA0 record for session A.                           
Read TWA0 for session C.                                                        
Copy into this TWA the saved broadcast data and the globals.                    
Write this TWA to TWA 0.                                                        
Set TSESSION to be C, TSSOTHER to be A, and TSSFLAG to say that TSSOTHER        
contains the last session from which we did work.                               
                                                                                
How do we interpret "old" s/r commands                                          
--------------------------------------                                          
=SWS swap sessions will be valid if TSESSION and TSSOTHER are defined           
with TSSFLAG set to TSSLAST. ie We define a swap session to toggle              
between the last two active sessions. In this case we will swap the             
contents of TSESSION and TSSOTHER and swap the TWA 0 for the two                
sessions. This will cost us 4 i/o's. But if we keep a flag in TSSFLAG           
that says no activity in a swapped session then we wont have to read            
or write back the current session. Thus if we swap to our partner               
session and dont do any input ie we just look at the screen and then do         
another =SWS to get us back then we can save alot on i/o's. This could          
be controlled by setting TSSFLAG=TSSLAST+TSSPNDG.                               
=CLS clear session could be valid and interpreted as a =CT on the               
current session. Most people dont know about or use =CLS.                       
                                                                                
=RES restore session is no longer valid. In fact some programs now are          
now flagged to say cant restore (temnpset users).                               
                                                                                
=SVS save session can be interpreted as =SS,+ ie go to the next session         
effectively "saving" the current session by advancing to the next.              
                                                                                
=CT,SVS can to interpreted as =SS,+ ie advance to the next session in           
exactly the same way as =SVS does. Question is "Does this mean go               
forward to the next session and do an =CT there and thus disconnect             
from the application that may have already been there" ?                        
