<DOCNAME>DDS Hardware and Software guide                                        
<CHAP>Introduction                                                              
                                                                                
First, some definitions.                                                        
                                                                                
HARDWARE means what it says: equipment or machinery that stands on the floor or 
a table.                                                                        
                                                                                
SOFTWARE means programs, instructions to the hardware that the machine can      
"read" from disks, tapes or punched cards.  The instructions are encoded in     
binary numbers.                                                                 
                                                                                
BINARY NUMBERS are numbers to the base 2.  Ordinary numbers are to the base 10; 
be written, they require nine different numerals plus a zero.  Numbers to the   
base 2 require only 1 and 0, eg, 1 (= 1 to the base 2), 10 (= 2), 11 (= 3), 100 
(= 4) 101 (= 5), etc.  Binary numbers are used in computers because the 1 and 0 
can be represented by the presence or absence of an electric charge.            
                                                                                
BYTE:  the basic computer unit of information.  Each byte is a string of eight  
0's and/or 1's, each referred to as a BIT.  Each byte represents a single       
character--letter, number, or special symbol.  All information entered into a   
computer is reduced to a long string of 0's and 1's, which can be manipulated in
electronic circuitry at very high speeds.  <CHAP>Computer Hardware <T>Basic     
Outline                                                                         
                                                                                
The basic parts of the hardware system are                                      
                                                                                
       1.  The central processing units (CPUs) at DDS;                          
                                                                                
       2.  Input/Output (I/O) devices at DDS;                                   
                                                                                
       3.  I/O devices at agencies.                                             
                                                                                
Input/Output devices are units, such as printers, disk storage, video screens or
card readers, that send data to the CPUs or receive data from them.             
                                                                                
                                                                                
                     -------------------------------                            
                    º                               º                           
                    º           Central             º                           
                    º          Processing           º                           
                    º            Units              º                           
                    º                               º                           
                     -------------------------------                            
                           º                 º                                  
                           º                 º                                  
                           º                 º                                  
                           º                 º                                  
                     -------------     -------------                            
                    º             º   º             º                           
                    º     I/O     º   º     I/O     º                           
                    º   Devices   º   º   Devices   º                           
                    º    (DDS)    º   º  (Agencies) º                           
                    º             º   º             º                           
                     -------------     -------------                            
<T>Central processing units (CPU)                                               
The central processing units (CPUs) are the heart of the hardware system.  There
are four CPUs:                                                                  
                                                                                
       1 IBM 4341, Model 2 computer,                                            
                                                                                
       1 NAS AS5000 computer, and                                               
                                                                                
       2 NAS AS7000 computers.                                                  
                                                                                
Each computer has a working memory (called core storage or main memory), which  
is limited in capacity.  The CPUs can also, however, call upon the peripheral   
storage (see Section 1B).                                                       
                                                                                
                                                                                
                     -------------     -------------                            
                    º             º   º             º                           
                    º   IBM4341   º   º     NAS     º                           
                    º   Model 2   º   º    AS5000   º                           
                    º             º   º             º                           
                    º             º   º             º                           
                    º     Core    º   º     Core    º                           
                    º   Storage   º   º   Storage   º                           
                    º 8 Megabytes º   º 6 Megabytes º                           
                    º-------------º   º-------------º                           
                    º             º   º             º                           
                    º     NAS     º   º     NAS     º                           
                    º    AS7000   º   º    AS7000   º                           
                    º             º   º             º                           
                    º             º   º             º                           
                    º     Core    º   º     Core    º                           
                    º   Storage   º   º   Storage   º                           
                    º 6 Megabytes º   º 6 Megabytes º                           
                     -------------     -------------                            
<PA>                                                                            
The four CPUs are third generation computers, ie, they are built with integrated
circuitry, as opposed to first generation computers, which had vacuum tubes, and
second generation computers, which used transistors.                            
                                                                                
The core storage capacities of the CPUs are:                                    
                                                                                
       IBM 4341, Model 2    capacity 8 megabytes (ie, 8 million bytes)          
                                                                                
       NAS AS5000           6 megabytes                                         
                                                                                
       NAS AS7000           6 megabytes                                         
                                                                                
The CPUs are near the top end of the current mainframe computer line, both in   
speed of operation and in main storage capacity.                                
                                                                                
FUNCTIONS AND DESIGN FEATURES                                                   
                                                                                
DDS computer operations are built around the CPUs.  Information is brought      
(loaded) into the main storage, where it is accessible to the CPUs for          
processing When not being processed, information is stored in peripheral storage
devices (at DDS, disk or tape) outside the main storage.                        
                                                                                
CPU WORK ASSIGNMENTS                                                            
                                                                                
It is possible to run two computers as a single unit, closely integrated and    
sharing main storage and work load with each other (a "tightly coupled" system).
DDS machines are "loosely coupled," ie, though they share access to the same    
files and one machine can queue batch input and output for itself and another,  
each CPUs processes information on its own, independent of the others.          
                                                                                
During the day, two computers (the AS7000s) support the online system: one      
processes REPPAK, the other processes all advertising (SPOT, PRINT, ACC, CONTROL
The AS5000 processes market research, while the IBM 4341 is  used for testing   
new operating systems.  At night, all the computers are used to process         
production.                                                                     
                                                                                
<T>Channels                                                                     
                                                                                
The CPUs have subsidiary computers called channels that regulate the flow of    
information between the CPU and any of the I/O devices.  The DDS system has six 
channels.                                                                       
                                                                                
Each I/O device is connected to a particular channel and  always communicates   
with the CPUs through the same channel, no matter which CPU it is connected to. 
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                 -------                                        
                                º       º                                       
                                º  CPUs º                                       
                                º       º                                       
                                 -------                                        
                                    º                                           
                                    º                                           
                               -----------                                      
                              º           º                                     
                              º Channels  º                                     
                              º (6 Units) º                                     
                              º           º                                     
                               -----------                                      
                                º º º º º                                       
                                º º º º º                                       
                              (Connections                                      
                             to I/O Devices)                                    
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
The CPUs communicate through devices such as printers, video screens, and card  
readers; they store information in external units such as tapes and disks.  All 
these devices are referred to as input/output (I/O) devices.  Data passing      
between the CPUs and any I/O device goes through information-handling devices   
known as channels.    Channels are small computers that handle I/O operations   
for the CPUs They may be separate (standalone) units (as they are at DDS) or    
they may be part of the same unit as the CPU and main storage.  The DDS system  
has 6 channels.  Each channel is connected, or can be connected, to all four    
CPUs.                                                                           
                                                                                
Channels free the CPUs of routine I/O supervision.  The CPUs queue I/O tasks for
each channel.  Whenever a channel is finished with an I/O operation, it         
interrupts the CPU to which it is connected to ask for the next one.  When the  
channel goes off to initiate the I/O operation, the CPU can resume processing.  
Thus, processing and I/O operations can go on at the same time.  <T>Peripheral  
Storage                                                                         
                                                                                
Peripheral storage contains stored information that can be read into core       
storage when needed.                                                            
                                                                                
There are two types of storage device:                                          
                                                                                
       Disk storage: DDS has 10 IBM 3340 disk storage units and 48 IBM 3350     
       units;                                                                   
                                                                                
       Tape storage: slower in operation than disks, but cheaper and of almost  
       unlimited capacity.                                                      
                                                                                
The advantage of disk storage is that any spot on a disk is as easy to read as  
any other, thus permitting random access.    Tapes, on the other hand, have to  
be read from one end to the other, good for getting information that is entered 
sequentially, but slow for reading scattered information.                       
                                                                                
Stored information that is directly accessible to the CPUs is called online     
information.  Stored information on disks or tapes that have to be specially    
loaded into disk or tape units is offline.                                      
<PA>                                                                            
                                                                                
                           -------                                              
                          º       º                                             
                          º  CPUs º                                             
                          º       º                                             
                           -------                                              
                              º                                                 
                         -----------                                            
                        º           º                                           
                        º Channels  º                                           
                        º           º                                           
                         -----------                                            
                          º                                                     
                          º     -----------                                     
                          º    º           º                                    
                          º    º   Disk    º                                    
                          º<-->º  Storage: º                                    
                          º    º  IBM3340  º                                    
                          º    º 10 Units  º                                    
                          º    º           º                                    
                          º     -----------                                     
                          º                                                     
                          º     -----------                                     
                          º    º           º                                    
                          º    º   Disk    º                                    
                          º<-->º  Storage: º                                    
                          º    º  IBM3350  º                                    
                          º    º 48 Units  º                                    
                          º    º           º                                    
                          º     -----------                                     
                          º                                                     
                          º     -----------                                     
                          º    º           º                                    
                          º    º   Tape    º                                    
                          º<-->º  Storage: º                                    
                               º   (Very   º                                    
                               º   Large   º                                    
                               º Capacity) º                                    
                               º           º                                    
                                -----------                                     
                                                                                
<PA>                                                                            
One of the most important considerations in operating a computer system,        
especially an online system, is how long it takes to locate and load desired    
records from outside storage devices into main storage.  For this reason, DDS   
relies primarily on disk storage, because data can be found much more quickly on
disks than on tapes.                                                            
                                                                                
The difference between disk and tape is that tape drives are primarily          
sequential access devices, whereas disk drives are designed to be direct or     
random access devices.    It is easy to read a tape sequentially--from beginning
to end, for example--but it is inefficient to make many short reads at different
locations on it, because of the time necessary to wind or rewind a tape from one
spot to another.  It may take from 3 to 20 minutes to read through a tape.  Any 
spot on a disk, on the other hand, can be read as easily as any other spot on   
it.                                                                             
                                                                                
Disk storage consists of flat disks, each shaped something like a phonograph    
record, stacked one on top of the other and enclosed in plastic disk packs.     
Read/write heads are positioned over each disk surface.    The heads are similar
to the heads on a tape recorder--small electromagnets which can read or write   
magnetic patterns on the disks.  The time it takes to get to a record, once its 
location is known, is determined by the speed of an arm carrying the read/write 
heads as it moves across the surface of a disk to the right location, plus the  
time it takes the disk (which is spinning quite fast) to turn to the right spot.
Seek times (arm movements) average a few thousandths of a second.    As a result
disks are practical for the storage of records that have to be accessed         
individually, or "randomly."                                                    
                                                                                
DDS uses tape to store files that have to be accessed sequentially, ie, starting
from a certain point and reading a large number of records in sequence.  Since  
tapes are much cheaper and more compact than disks, they are the most economical
medium for storing whole files offline, for transferring bulk files from one    
computer system to another, or for batch processing jobs in which data are to be
read sequentially.                                                              
                                                                                
DDS uses tape for market research jobs, for clients' bank reconciliation , and  
for storing backup copies of all disk files; also, interface tapes are sent   to
clients for use in their own computer systems. In addition DDS receives NSI and 
ARB data on tape; however, the information is transferred to disks for use on   
line.                                                                           
                                                                                
Direct access storage devices make online terminal systems practical.    Most   
DDS user files, including all online system files, are stored on disk.  This    
include among other things, all SPOT, PRINT, ACCPAK, and REPPAK user files, all 
DDS programs, and stored publications text.  This is online storage, ie, disks  
are always loaded and available to the CPU.  (It is possible, when using        
removable disk packs, to increase capacity by having more than one diskpack per 
device and changing packs when necessary,  but then the extra disk storage      
becomes "offline.")                                                             
                                                                                
Once an item in a file has been located (on disk or tape), the time required to 
transfer the information into main storage is negligible.  At present disk      
transfer rates it would take less than a second to reload the entire main memory
of one CPU computer.  Almost all transactions involve much smaller transfers, so
that in practice, no transfer would require the reloading of the entire main    
memory.  Most transfers involve several thousand bytes or less, and take place  
in a few thousandths of a second.                                               
                                                                                
To give an idea of the total size of DDS storage capacity: DDS currently uses   
two models of disk drives--the IBM 3340 and the IBM 3350.  There are ten 3340s  
and 4 3350s.  The 3340 drive units have removable disk packs (data modules).    
Storage capacity depends on which data module is used, but ranges from about    
35,000,000 about 70,000,000 (compared to the million to two million-byte main   
storage capacities).  The 3350s have fixed (non-removable) storage packs and can
store 317,000,000 bytes each.                                                   
                                                                                
Tape storage capacity is practically unlimited, since tapes are cheap and easy  
to store.  Data can be stored on tape at from 1600 bits per inch to as high as  
6250 bytes per inch.  <T>Other I/O Devices                                      
                                                                                
Apart from memory storage devices, there are four kinds of I/O devices at DDS.  
                                                                                
       1.    Terminals, with screen and keyboard, for entering and displaying   
             information relating to any of the DDS client systems;             
                                                                                
       2.    Word Processors that can enter information into the Panvalet       
             library, part of the disk storage system, or retrieve material     
             from Panvalet for editing or printing;                             
                                                                                
       3.    Printers, which print                                              
                                                                                
             (a) Panvalet material;                                             
             (b) material entered directly from word processors;                
             (c) material entered or received on terminals.                     
                                                                                
       4.    Punched-Card Readers, for CPU input or output in punched-card      
             form.                                                              
                                                                                
<PA>                                                                            
                          ---------                                             
                         º         º                                            
                         º   CPUs  º                                            
                         º         º                                            
                          ---------                                             
                              º                                                 
                              º                                                 
                         -----------                                            
                        º           º                                           
                        º  Channels º                                           
                        º           º                                           
                         -----------                                            
                          º                                                     
                          º     -------------                                   
                          º    º   Word      º                                  
                          º<-->º Processors  º                                  
                          º    º  (4 Units)  º                                  
                          º     -------------                                   
                          º     -------------                                   
                          º<-->º  Terminals  º                                  
                          º     -------------                                   
                          º     -------------                                   
                          º    º    Card     º                                  
                          º<---º   Readers   º                                  
                          º    º  (3 Units)  º                                  
                          º     -------------                                   
                          º     -------------                                   
                          º    º   IBM3800   º                                  
                          º--->º   Printer   º                                  
                          º    º  (3 Units)  º                                  
                          º     -------------                                   
                          º     -------------                                   
                          º    º   IBM1403   º                                  
                          º--->º  Model N1   º                                  
                          º    º   Printer   º                                  
                          º     -------------                                   
                          º     -------------                                   
                          º--->º   IBM3211   º                                  
                          º    º   Model 1   º                                  
                          º    º   Printer   º                                  
                          º     -------------                                   
                          º     -------------                                   
                          º--->º   IBM6670   º                                  
                          º    º   Copier    º                                  
                          º     -------------                                   
                          º     -------------                                   
                          º--->º   Direct    º                                  
                               º  Printers   º                                  
                                -------------                                   
<PA>                                                                            
TERMINALS                                                                       
                                                                                
DDS uses Courier and Telex terminals with keyboards and data display screens.   
They are used to enter or display data relating to any of the DDS client-service
systems.                                                                        
                                                                                
WORD PROCESSORS                                                                 
                                                                                
DDS has a small number of word processors.  Of these, one Vydec, one Xerox 850  
and two Xerox 860s are linked to the CPUs.                                      
                                                                                
By means of the CPUs, the word processors can enter new material into the       
Panvalet library section of the peripheral storage, retrieve material for       
editing or printing, or transmit material directly to the printers.             
                                                                                
PRINTERS                                                                        
                                                                                
Most batch computer jobs generate printed output; no printed output is generated
for individual terminal entries, unless the entry involves a request for a      
report or produces some automatic turnaround document as confirmation of an     
action.  This is because the user normally receives responses on the terminal   
display screen.  Requested reports and turnarounds are usually printed on IBM   
computer printers in the DDS computer room, with a small percentage of reports  
printed directly on printers at agency offices.  A rough estimate of paper flow 
through the DDS mailroom (mostly reports and turnaround) is 270,000 pages a day.
                                                                                
DDS maintains three different types of computer printers for printing clients'  
reports: one IBM 1403 Model N1, three IBM 3211 Model Ones and three IBM 3800s.  
The 1403s and 3211s are impact line printers, ie, they print by striking        
characters against a paper with a ribbon next to it, like a typewriter.         
                                                                                
The 3800 is more sophisticated, and is classified by IBM not as a computer print
but as a printing subsystem.  It is faster and offers more features than the    
impact printers.  The 3800 is a laser printer.    It prints by tracing out a    
full page of text with a low-powered laser beam onto a revolving drum (somewhat 
as a set builds a picture by scanning the screen with a single beam).  After the
image is on the drum it is transferred onto paper, much as in a copier.  By     
projecting form slide (a slide with a photographic image of   a "printed" form) 
over each drum image, the 3800 can print document forms as it prints text,      
making preprinted forms unnecessary.  Since it is not an impact printer, the    
3800 cannot print on multi-part forms, but it can be set up to prin duplicate   
copies in sequence and then burst and collate them.                             
                                                                                
The impact printers, using more conventional technology, each carry characters  
on a print train which spins along the line to be printed, something like a     
sideway bicycle chain with letters.  Behind each print position on the paper is 
a hammer The printer is timed so that when the proper letter is over the desired
print position a hammer whaps it and the correct letter appears on the paper.   
Letters are typed on a line in random order, but because of the speed of the    
process, the line printers may appear to be printing a line at a time.  When a  
page is finished, the printer automatically skips to the top of a new page.  A  
carriage control tape or FCB is used to indicate the distance to   the next     
page; different carriage control tapes are used to produce paper forms of       
different depth.                                                                
                                                                                
The 1403 prints up to 1100 full text lines per minute (lpm).  The 3211 prints   
almost twice as fast, up to 2000 lpm.  Both of these are slow in comparison with
the 3800.  Operating at full speed, the 3800 prints up to 2,725,440 characters a
minute, or roughly 13,360 lines.  On the basis of a constant feed rate of 2160  
inches per minute, it prints about 10,000 pages per hour.  It is much slower,   
however, at producing multi-part forms, since it must print them individually.  
                                                                                
In the case of the impact printers, the lines-per-minute rates mentioned above  
and for production printing--used for agency reports, turnarounds and most      
routine work.  Production printing is done with a standard production print     
train.    The production train is designed with a limited character set, so that
more sets of characters can fit on the train.  The DDS production train has five
complete set of characters on it.  Repeating the characters almost quintuples   
printing speed, since each character passes each print position five times as   
often as it would with a single character set.                                  
                                                                                
To keep the number of characters down, IBM does not include small (lower case)  
letters on the production train.  Production printing is always done in capital 
letters.  To print anything with upper and lower case letters, for example, a   
direct line or a copy of a manual, it is necessary to have a special print train
installed on the printer.                                                       
                                                                                
The IBM 6670, technically called a copier rather than a printer, produces high- 
quality copy on regular-sized paper.  It is used in conjunction with programs   
that format material specifically for the 6670 in order to take advantage of its
range of fonts (ie, type sizes and styles) and the quality of the material it   
produces Although any printed output can be routed to the 6670, it is mostly    
used for printing manuals and memos.                                            
                                                                                
                                                                                
CARD READERS                                                                    
                                                                                
Initial introduction of material into computer storage is often by punched card;
each card is punched in patterns that correspond to bit patterns in storage.    
This is not true in the case of agency files in the DDS online system, which are
input on terminals; but the programs that control the terminals were probably   
loaded initially by punched card.  Each card holds a maximum of 80 characters;  
the computer handles information from a card reader as 80-character card images,
ie, individual records of up to 80 characters each.  Each character is punched  
into specific column on a card, numbered from 1 through 80.  DDS maintains three
card readers, used for the loading of new programs, corrections to existing     
programs, batch processing input (mostly for market research, which keeps four  
keypunchers busy), and for submitting job decks to invoke user programs, already
on disk, to be executed, ie, either with data supplied with the deck or with    
data already in storage.  DDS has one IBM 2540 card reader/punch (cards can also
be punched as computer output); it reads 1000 cards minute and punches 300 a    
minute.  DDS also has two IBM 2501 card readers.                                
                                                                                
Compared to either tape or disk, card input is slow; cards are read at a maximum
rate of 1000-1200 cards per minute.  The punched cards are passed in front of a 
light source and the pattern of punched holes is converted into electrical      
signal by light-sensitive photo cells according to where light shows through.   
However, the cards are easy to handle, and individual cards are easy to correct;
moreover punched card input is a small percentage of total data processed by the
DDS, so that speed is not a major concern.  <T>Telecommunications               
                                                                                
Equipment in use at agencies consists of a selection of terminals and printers. 
However, the link between  the agency equipment and the DDS computer system is  
through leased telephone lines.  This makes it necessary to use special         
equipment to adapt computer signals to a form that can be carried by telephone  
lines.  The system that performs this task is called the telecommunications     
system.                                                                         
                                                                                
The telecommunications system consists of the following parts:                  
                                                                                
At DDS                                                                          
                                                                                
       1.    The communications front end, which directs signals from the CPU   
             to the appropriate telephone line and routes incoming signals to   
             the CPU;                                                           
                                                                                
       2.    Modems (= modulator/demodulator units), one for each analog        
             telephone line (see below), for converting digital signals from    
             the CPU to analog signals (and vice versa).                        
                                                                                
       3.    Code/Decode units, one for each digital telephone line (see        
             below), for converting CPU digital signals to the kind carried on  
             digital telephone lines (and vice versa).                          
                                                                                
At agencies                                                                     
                                                                                
There are corresponding modem and code/decode units at the agencies.            
                                                                                
                                                                                
Note: Analog/Digital                                                            
                                                                                
The telephone system was designed to transmit sound by means of electrical      
signals that varied in a way that was analogous, or parallel, to the            
variations of sound waves.  Hence the term analog telephone lines, for which    
digital computer signal have to be converted to an analog form by modems.  The  
more recently developed digital technique of transmitting sound involves        
analyzing the sound many times each second and transmitting a separate signal   
for each bit of analysis, ie, a series of separate steps instead of the         
continuously varying analog signal.  Telephone lines designed for this          
technique, though still few in number, are suitable for transmitting CPU digital
signals modified by code/decode units.                                          
<PA>                                                                            
                                                                                
 -------------------------------------------                                    
º                                           º                                   
º        ----------------------------       º                                   
º       º            CPUs            º      º                                   
º        ----------------------------       º                                   
º                     º                     º                                   
º                     º                     º                                   
º        ----------------------------       º                                   
º       º          Channels          º      º                                   
º        ----------------------------       º                                   
º                     º                     º     DDS                           
º                     º                     º                                   
º        ----------------------------       º                                   
º       º  Communications Fron End   º      º                                   
º        ----------------------------       º                                   
º                     º                     º                                   
º                     º                     º                                   
º        ----------------------------       º                                   
º       º                            º      º                                   
º       º                            º      º                                   
º----------------           ----------------º                                   
º   Code/Decode  º         º    Modems      º                                   
º----------------           ----------------º                                   
º        º                         º        º                                   
º        V                         V        º                                   
 -------------------------------------------                                    
         º                         º                                            
         º                         º          Leased                            
   Digital Lines            Analog Lines      Phone                             
         º                         º          Line s                            
         º                         º                                            
         º                         º                                            
 -------------------------------------------                                    
º        º                         º        º                                   
º        º                         º        º                                   
º----------------           ----------------º                                   
º   Code/Decode  º         º    Modems      º Agencies                          
º----------------           ----------------º                                   
º        º                         º        º                                   
º        V                         V        º                                   
º       To  Terminals  and  Printers        º                                   
 -------------------------------------------                                    
         DDS Telecommunications System                                          
                                                                                
<PA>                                                                            
COMMUNICATIONS FRONT END                                                        
                                                                                
DDS has three Comten front end units.  The Comten is a "front end processor"    
produced and especially programmed for the DDS system by the Comten company to  
serve as a communications supervisor for the online system.  Each front end is a
separate standalone unit, connected to a computer channel on one end and on the 
other end, through ports, to telephone lines, via modems or code/decode units.  
                                                                                
Each Comten polls each of its ports four times a second, no matter what kind of 
line comes into it.  A poll is directed to each controller on a line, asking if 
any of the terminals attached to that controller has a message.  (Controllers   
are devices at the agency end of the telephone lines that allow one line to be  
connected to more than one terminal.  See Section 4.)  The controllers on a     
multi-drop line (ie, a line with more than one terminal) are polled in          
succession so that each controller receives a major poll less often than it     
would on a point-to-point line.                                                 
                                                                                
Programs in the computer refer to terminals by logical addresses, without       
reference to physical phone lines.  A table programmed into the Comten assigns  
each logical address to an actual line.  The Comten directs signals carrying the
logical addresses sent by the computer to their appropriate physical phone lines
                                                                                
The front end also performs a number of other operations as data pass through it
it checks data for garbling by checking "bit parity," and it receives a list of 
terminals to be polled from the CPU every few seconds and does the actual pollin
according to these instructions.                                                
                                                                                
Once a channel and an agency  terminal are connected, the front end is, for all 
practical purposes, invisible to both.  As messages are passed, both the CPUs   
and the terminals act as if they were talking to each other directly.  The whole
communications link is transparent from both ends, both to the CPUs and to the  
terminals.                                                                      
                                                                                
The comten performs many functions that would otherwise have to be performed by 
the CPUs; as a result, using the Comtens increases available CPU capacity.      
                                                                                
                                                                                
MODEMS                                                                          
                                                                                
Information in the computer and in the terminals exists in digital form;        
conventional telephone lines are designed to handle analog signals.    In       
digital form, a stream of information consists of discrete pieces, ie, separate,
individual signals.  Bits in computer storage fit into this category.  Analog   
signals carry information in a manner more like the human voice, a continuous   
signal which varies in pitch (frequency) and loudness (amplitude).  Information 
communicated by changes in pitch and volume.                                    
                                                                                
In order to be transmitted on conventional phone lines,  digital signals are    
passed through modulator/demodulators (modems) at DDS and at each agency office,
to be converted from digital to analog form and, at the other end of the line,  
from analog back to digital.                                                    
                                                                                
CODE/DECODE UNITS                                                               
                                                                                
In recent years the telephone company has begun offering digital  transmission  
of data.  DDS uses a limited number of digital lines.  Since digital lines do   
not need signals converted into analog form for transmission, no modems are used
on these lines.  Instead, coders/decoders are used to convert DDS digital       
signals into a form suitable for phone company transmission.  Though the signals
are coded and decoded for transmission, they remain digital signals.            
Transmission rates over phone lines are measured in bits per second (bps).      
The speed is determined by which modems (or decoders) are used.  If a device is 
rate at 2400 bps, it will transmit roughly 2400 bits of data in a second.  DDS  
modems transmit at either 2400 or 4800 bps--rates that can be accommodated by   
voice grade lines (see Telephone Lines).  At 2400 bps, about 240 characters a   
second are transmitted.  (Eight  bits = 1 byte = 1 character, plus beginning and
end bits, for a total of ten.)  A full terminal screen consists of 1920 (80 by  
24) characters and requires about 6 seconds to send at 2400 bps.  Most          
transmissions involve only a small fraction of that.  Rows of blanks, for       
example, are transmitted in compressed form, a practice that greatly reduces    
transmission time                                                               
                                                                                
TELEPHONE LINES                                                                 
                                                                                
Terminals are connected to the computers by dedicated phone lines through   the 
communications center next to the DDS computer room.  (Dedicated lines are      
leased always connected between two points, making dialing unnecessary.) At     
present, about 1000 terminals and 120 printers are connected to the online      
system, through about 200 separate phone lines into DDS.  For the sake of       
economy--because no terminal can keep a phone line busy with the amount of data 
it handles--terminals share phone lines.  The cost of renting phone lines is    
paid by agencies; some agencies  who can not keep a line busy with their own    
traffic share a line with another agency or other agencies.  There are currently
250 drops, or agency installations, on the system.                              
                                                                                
The dedicated lines used by DDS are for the most part voice grade, which   means
that they are designed to transmit frequencies used by the human voice.  There  
are also special data lines, which are able to pass data at higher speeds.  DDS 
also uses a limited number of digital lines.                                    
                                                                                
Information is passed down the phone lines in streams one character at a time,  
one after the other.  A sense of how a terminal receives information can be     
gained by watching a new screen of information appear on a terminal.  Characters
appear as they are received--one at a time, left to right.  The information     
arrives in a continuous stream.  It is divided by the terminal into individual  
lines.                                                                          
                                                                                
As long as a phone line is connected directly from DDS to only one agency office
it is referred to as a point-to-point line.    Whenever a line is connected to  
more than one office, it becomes a multi-drop line.    Each drop on the line has
its own controller and modem.  The general capacity of a line is eight terminals
(the number that can fit on a single controller); if there are more than eight  
terminals on one line, it takes an excessively long time to get return messages.
Agencies can share lines, as long as the total number of terminals on a line    
(generally) does not exceed eight.  Each office still needs its own controller. 
Agencies on the west coast, where phone costs are high, are more likely to use  
multi-drop lines than New York agencies.  Sometimes lines are shared among two  
or more west coast agencies, even if they are in different cities.              
                                                                                
                                                                                
Regular (dialed) telephone lines can also be used for telecommunications, at    
standard phone rates.  The dialed circuits are called switched lines,   because 
every time a line is dialed the call is switched through a series of exchanges. 
Given the convenience of dedicated lines, however, dialed lines are considered  
an unfavorable alternative for regular use.  Connections from one call to the   
next are of uneven quality, since dialed calls are seldom switched through the  
same circuits twice.  If dialed lines are used a lot, the cost can be greater   
than than for leased lines.  Though some dialed lines have been used in the past
for backup service, none are currently used.                                    
                                                                                
                                                                                
MULTIPLEXERS                                                                    
                                                                                
A multiplexer is a device that can handle several sets of communications        
simultaneously and transmit them together over a single high-speed line.  At the
other end of the line, an identical multiplexer sorts out the individual message
strands and directs them to I/O devices. The multiplexer system reduces         
communications costs by cutting down the required number of telephone lines, and
the system is currently used by some DDS clients that have a very high level of 
communications traffic.                                                         
<PA>                                                                            
                                                                                
                                -------------                                   
                               º     CPU     º                                  
                               º  Channels   º                                  
                               ºComm. Fr. Endº                                  
                                -------------                                   
                                      º                                         
                                      º                                         
                                -------------                                   
                               º Multiplexer º      DDS                         
                                -------------                                   
                                      º                                         
                                      º                                         
                                -------------                                   
                               º    Modem    º                                  
                                -------------                                   
                                      º                                         
                               Telephone Line                                   
                                      º                                         
                                -------------                                   
                               º    Modem    º                                  
                                -------------                                   
                                      º             Agency                      
                                      º                                         
                                -------------                                   
                               º Multiplexer º                                  
                                -------------                                   
                                      º                                         
                               To I/O Devices                                   
<T>Equipment used at agencies                                                   
                                                                                
In addition to modems and code/decode units, agencies use terminals and   direct
printers.                                                                       
                                                                                
Terminals and direct printers can be single or multiple.  Agencies with more    
than one terminal--most agencies--have controllers connected between the        
terminals and the modem or code/decode unit, so that one telephone line can     
handle all the terminals.  Each controller can support eight terminals and/or   
printers.                                                                       
                                                                                
If an agency has only one terminal on a line, that terminal is a kind called a  
standalone terminal, which can communicate directly with the CPU and requires no
controller.                                                                     
                                                                                
Direct printers, with controllers if necessary, can print either material       
transmitted from DDS (direct printing) or what appears on the screen at the     
agency (local printing).                                                        
                                                                                
<PA>                                                                            
                                                                                
                                      º                                         
                                      º                                         
                                      º                                         
                                -------------                                   
                               º  Modem or   º                                  
                               º Code/Decode º                                  
                                -------------                                   
                                      º                                         
                                      º                                         
                                -------------                                   
                               º Controller  º                                  
                                -------------                                   
                                      º                                         
                               ---------------                                  
                              º               º                                 
                              º               º                                 
                         -----------     -----------                            
                        º Terminals º   º Printers  º                           
                         -----------     -----------                            
                                                                                
                             (a) Multiple Units                                 
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                      º                                         
                                -------------                                   
                               º  Modem or   º                                  
                               º Code/Decode º                                  
                                -------------                                   
                                      º                                         
                               ---------------                                  
                              º               º                                 
                              º               º                                 
                         -----------     -----------                            
                        º Terminal  º   º  Printer  º                           
                         -----------     -----------                            
                                                                                
                              (b) Single Units                                  
<PA>                                                                            
TERMINALS AND CONTROLLERS                                                       
                                                                                
Each agency office on the online system has one or more terminals on its        
premises There are several types in use: mostly Courier terminals, as used at   
DDS, and all Telex and Racal-Milgo terminals.                                   
                                                                                
Agencies with more than one terminal--most agencies--also have controllers      
connected between modems and terminals, to enable one line to handle more than  
one terminal.  Agencies with one terminal on a line use standalone terminals,   
which require no control unit.  Each controller is designed to support up to    
eight terminals and/or printers.  The terminals used in this arrangement are    
relatively simple devices and do not communicate with the computer directly.    
Each controller handles communications for all terminals attached to it by means
of screen buffers.      Each terminal "reads" its buffer continually in order to
maintain its screen image, so that whatever is in the buffer appears on the     
screen.  Information sent from the CPU is sent to this buffer in the controller.
When information is entered onto a screen it acts directly on the contents of   
this buffer.  When the ENTER key is hit, it signals that the contents of the    
screen buffer--whether they are valid input to a program in the CPU or not--are 
to be transmitted down the line.                                                
                                                                                
In the case of formatted fields, the controller can distinguish between the     
screen format originally sent by the CPU and data entered onto the screen by the
keyboard; return messages contain only the data entered by the terminal operator
                                                                                
Standalone terminals have self-contained screen buffers, and communicate        
directly with the CPU.                                                          
                                                                                
DIRECT PRINTERS                                                                 
                                                                                
Agencies can have printers on their premises; information can be fed to them in 
two ways.  The first is called local printing.    In local printing, the printer
simply prints the contents of an agency terminal's buffer screen when the local 
print key on the terminal is hit.  This function can be used whenever anyone    
wants to print out what appears on a terminal screen, whether it is material    
sent from the computer or material entered by keyboard onto a terminal screen.  
Local printing involves no communication with the CPU, and no transmission along
the telephone line.                                                             
                                                                                
The second printing method is direct printing.    Direct printing lets an agency
print full DDS reports, instead of having them printed at DDS.  Entire processed
reports, prepared overnight at DDS, the same as reports that are printed at DDS,
are saved on disk for transmission directly to an agency printer.  Direct       
printing, therefore, involves special transmissions to agency printers.         
                                                                                
DDS uses two types of printers at agencies; one of these types is used by DDS   
client service.  Each printer has a control unit, which is attached to the      
terminal controller.  The printers are line impact printers, on a smaller scale 
than the ones used in the DDS computer room.  Different form depths are         
accommodated by changing dials to regulate the number of lines per inch and the 
number of lines per page.                                                       
                                                                                
<CHAP>Software                                                                  
<T>Introduction                                                                 
The online system is controlled by the software, which is a set of programs.    
These consist of                                                                
                                                                                
       (1)   system control programs which allocate system resources and        
             control traffic according to prearranged rules, and                
                                                                                
       (2)   the user programs (also called applications programs), which       
             perform the visible functions of the online systems.               
                                                                                
Although the control programs are invisible to the user, anything entered into  
the system passes through the control programs to specific user programs; what  
comes out of the system is directed by control programs to the proper output    
devices after the control program has checked to see that a device is ready to  
accept the message.                                                             
                                                                                
The telecommunications system is controlled by the Comten message-flow program. 
                                                                                
The control programs are                                                        
                                                                                
       (a)   Disk Operating System (MVS), which controls the flow of jobs and   
             data within the CPU; it loads user programs into main memory,      
             assigns tasks to areas of storage called partitions; calls up tasks
             for processing when capacity is available; and interrupts low-     
             priority jobs in order to process higher-priority jobs;            
                                                                                
       (b)   JES, which manages unit record data (input cards, printer          
             output;                                                            
                                                                                
       (c)   FACPAK, which manages inputs from terminals by means of message    
             queues.                                                            
                                                                                
The applications programs are the overall package of DDS user programs, called  
ADPAK.  ADPAK has a control program which sets up user IDs, assigns terminal    
addresses, and controls access to terminals.                                    
                                                                                
The individual systems--SPOT, PRINT, etc--support terminal activities, build and
refer to user files, create requested reports, and build a recovery file for use
in case of need.                                                                
                                                                                
The Comten message-flow program is the interface between the DDS computer and   
the communications lines going to user locations. It continuously monitors      
active lines for messages from terminals and interrupts the lines when necessary
for outgoing messages to the terminals.                                         
                                                                                
                                                                                
PROGRAMMING                                                                     
                                                                                
Programming is generally thought of in terms of the CPU.  In fact, the CPU,     
channels, front end, and control units on individual I/O units are all          
programmable, ie, they must be programmed to interact or interface with each    
other.  Interfacing means ensuring that every time a signal is sent from one    
device to another, the receiving device will be                                 
                                                                                
       (1)   ready and able to accept and interpret the signal and              
                                                                                
       (2)   able to perform an appropriate response.                           
                                                                                
If a signal is valid, it must be passed on or processed.  If a signal is invalid
some standard response must be given to indicate an error, and the system must  
be able to return to a state in which it can accept a valid signal.  The more   
possible conditions a system can handle, the less often it will be incapacitated
by an error or by malfunctioning of one of its parts.  A system must also be    
designed so that it minimizes the effects of any malfunction and can recover    
those effects easily and reliably.                                              
                                                                                
Rules as to which devices will accept signals from other devices, which devices 
will send them, what form signals will take, and what form responses will take  
are decided on the basis of available technology, economics, individual system  
requirements, and so forth; then, once hardware is chosen, the rules are built  
into the programming of the system.                                             
                                                                                
At the hardware level, most of these considerations have been dealt with by     
computer manufacturers by means of software packages, either available off the  
shelf or adapted for DDS use.  The Comten, for example, is equipped with        
software designed and installed specifically for DDS.  Programming of the Comten
and other peripheral units, eg, control units for printers, is essentially      
fixed, so long the same hardware is in use.                                     
                                                                                
On the other hand, the programming of the CPUs, both control programs and user  
programs, can be changed independently of hardware in order, for example, to off
new services to clients or make better use of machine time.  Changes in user    
programs are much more common than changes in control programs, and more limited
in their effects on the system.  For example, a change in a user program might  
affect the form in which a client enters a date onto the screen, whereas a      
change to a control program might affect how all user programs store data.      
                                                                                
Though a user-program change would be more visible, it would probably affect the
system much less than would a change in the control program.  Such a change in a
control program would probably be rare, partly because it could require changes 
all the user programs that deal with the affected control program; however,     
changes in user programs to provide new features are more common.               
                                                                                
Within the CPUs, levels of software interact with each other, to control the    
CPUs and traffic through them on one level and to process data on another level.
In fact, each level usually has levels and sublevels within it.                 
                                                                                
<T>Operating system                                                             
The CPUs cannot operate without a software operating system to control the      
flow of jobs and data, eg, to load user programs and handle I/O operations,     
among other things.  IBM offers several operating systems; DDS uses a relatively
basic one called the Disk Operating System or MVS.    MVS is a fixed IBM        
software package, never changed by DDS, though it has been supplemented by DDS  
programs.  Whenever a DDS computer is running, part of MVS is resident in a part
of main memory reserved for it.  MVS splits the rest of main memory into        
partitions, which can have priorities assigned to them.  As the machine runs, a 
user program is resident in each one of the partitions, though only one program 
can actually be executing at a time.                                            
                                                                                
By loading a separate program into each partition, thus treating each partition 
a separate main memory, MVS achieves multiprogramming, one of the basic design  
goals of the 370 system.  Each time MVS finishes an operation, eg, loading a    
program, it checks the partitions until it finds a program that is ready to run.
When it finds one, it turns control of the machine over to the program.         
                                                                                
Whenever a program is interrupted, for example, because it needs information    
from a disk file, or when a program is finished running, MVS resumes control of 
the CPUs, services the interrupt, and then returns control to the highest       
program it locates on the priority scheme that is ready to begin or resume      
execution.  If there is no program ready, the machine goes into a wait mode.    
                                                                                
Thus, while one program is waiting for an answer to an I/O operation, the CPUs  
are not forced to sit idle if another program can make use of the time.  The key
to multiprogramming is the system of priorities, which gives very high priority 
to online service.                                                              
                                                                                
In fact, there may be so many online requests that the computer never gets to,  
for example, a market research job, but multiprogramming is still a major       
advantage:  While a file is being looked up for one online request another      
message can be accepted by the CPU, and another I/O operation initiated.  Online
requests can interrupt each other as well as batch jobs.  Though such           
interruptions may make some individual jobs take longer, multiprogramming       
substantially increases a computer's total throughput (amount of work done).    
                                                                                
Applications programs can be called for (invoked) in MVS via Job Control        
Language (or JCL, a set of input statements recognized by MVS), by another      
program, or by job deck.  When MVS reads an "EXEC" card, it calls the program   
into a partition, and turns control of the CPU over to that program.  That      
program, in turn, reads the next card in its input stream to determine what it  
has to do.  The information, in each case, must be in a form recognizable to the
program.  The user program's control is limited; if it fails to work properly,  
control reverts to MVS.                                                         
<T>JES Spooling system                                                          
                                                                                
Batch jobs, which are usually any jobs that do not require an immediate   answer
online, are queued by an IBM software package called JES.    JES resides in one 
partition of each machine.  JES reads job decks placed in a card reader and     
queues them to a disk area called the reader queue, a line of jobs   waiting to 
processed.  When jobs have been processed, output is passed to another disk area
the list queue, composed of jobs waiting for specific printers or card punches. 
The process of recording jobs on queues before and after processing is called   
spooling.                                                                       
                                                                                
In job control language (JCL), the first two cards (each beginning with the     
symbols * $$) used on the DDS system are addressed to JES.    (The next two,    
each beginning with //, are addressed to MVS, which receives the input stream   
from JES.)    The first card, the JES Job card, provides information which will 
print user name and job name on output hard copy (assuming print output is to be
produced) and the job class, which assigns the job to one of the processing     
partitions.  The second card, the JES LST card, tells JES how to treat the job  
on the list queue, ie, which type of paper is to be used, whether the job is to 
held or deleted after printing, number of copies to be printed, whether or not  
the job needs to go to a printer with upper and lower case letters, and so      
forth.                                                                          
                                                                                
If necessary, operators can control the flow of jobs on the reader and list     
queue through the operator consoles, for example, if a job has special priority 
or if mistake made in requesting the job has been caught in time.  Operators can
release or hold jobs of a certain class on either reader or list queue, and     
change job classes or other JCL of jobs on the queues.                          
                                                                                
<T>FACPAK                                                                       
FACPAK: ONLINE INPUT                                                            
                                                                                
Online input from terminals is processed directly by the teleprocessing control 
program, FACPAK. FACPAK is a control program for all the online systems; its    
functions are                                                                   
                                                                                
             putting incoming messages into main memory queues, one queue for   
             each system;                                                       
                                                                                
             assigning priority to queues according to the number of messages   
             in each queue;                                                     
                                                                                
             keeping a record if activity on all systems (available online      
             under $LIST or $FAST).                                             
                                                                                
As each message's turn in the queue comes up, the appropriate applications      
program is made resident in main storage for processing it.                     
                                                                                
The processing program then examines the message, determines what task is to    
be performed, and perform it.  The task may involve "reading" a file, "writing  
to" file, passing information back to a terminal to acknowledge that the task   
has been completed or cannot be completed because of some error condition, or   
performing calculations on data before passing the data on to the files or to   
the terminal screen.  In any case, when a task has been completed, or when the  
program determines that, for some reason, it cannot be completed, the program   
generates a return message to the terminal.                                     
<T>Applications                                                                 
                                                                                
The overall package of DDS user programs is called ADPAK.  It includes first of 
all a control program, used to set user IDs, assign terminal addresses to       
specific agencies, and control terminal access to various DDS systems, among    
other things.                                                                   
                                                                                
Individual user systems function under the FACPAK sub-operating system, ie, SPOT
PRINT, etc. Each applications system                                            
                                                                                
       (1)   supports terminal activity,                                        
                                                                                
       (2)   builds and refers to a set of user files, and                      
                                                                                
       (3)   processes user files to create requested reports.                  
                                                                                
As the programs run, the system builds a set of daily activity files.  A request
file is built, consisting of a list of reports to be batch processed that night.
                                                                                
A recovery file is built, detailing all the day's transactions, so that   should
anything happen to records they can be reconstructed by processing the recovery 
file with a copy of the previous day's data file, copied on tape the   previous 
evening.  Running an extract program on the recovery file produces a file       
activity report, which reports total transactions and dollars for the day.      
<T>COMTEN Message flow                                                          
                                                                                
Whenever the online system is up, the Comten polls all active terminals,through 
the controllers.  As mentioned above, controllers on point-to-point lines are   
polled about 4 times a second; controllers on multidrop lines are polled about 4
times a second, where x is the number of drops on the line.  The polling signal 
received by the controller like any other traffic, except that it is directed to
the controller rather than to a terminal.  As the signal arrives, the "Receive" 
light on the agency modem blinks to indicate the presence of incoming traffic;  
the "Receive Data" light on the controller also blinks.  (By checking these     
lights, is possible to detect the probable absence of a polling signal at an    
agency installation.)                                                           
                                                                                
Whenever the ENTER key on a terminal is hit, a "flag" is set in the controller, 
indicating that the contents of the screen buffer are to be sent at the next    
opportunity.  (At this point, ENTER and LOCK lights on the terminal light up.)  
When the controller receives a poll, it checks its terminals to determine if any
flags have been set.  If it finds no flag, the controller sends a "negative     
acknowledge" (i.e., no message) back to the Comten.  If a flag is found, the    
controller sends the message.                                                   
                                                                                
When the message has been sent, the ENTER and LOCK lights go out.  As a result  
ii is possible to tell how much of the waiting time is polling delay (waiting to
be polled) and how much of it is actual computer response time (how long the    
computer takes to answer once it has the message). In either case, whether there
is a message or not, the controller must answer within a specified period of    
time allowed by the front end, after which the front end will proceed to issue  
anothe poll--either to the same controller or, in the case of a multi- drop     
line, to another controller on the line.                                        
                                                                                
If the Comten receives no response at all, it reports to the CPU that a poll is 
"timing out."If that happens often enough, a message appears on a screen in the 
communications room.  If it receives a message without error, the message is    
queued for processing and polling resumes.If it receives a "no message" message,
polling continues.                                                              
                                                                                
A message on one line will not affect the polling of other ports in that Comten 
unit; but while information is being exchanged on a line, polling on that line  
is suspended.  As a result, although terminals on different lines do not        
interfere with each other (except indirectly, by the load they place on the     
whole system), terminals on the same line can easily end up in contention for   
the line.  Heavy use of a line can create noticeable polling delays.  Terminals 
are polled in a constant rotation; in heavy use, a terminal could conceivably   
have to wait for all the other terminals on its line to be answered before its  
own ENTER would be recognized.                                                  
                                                                                
If invalid data have been sent in a form the program mistakenly accepts or does 
not recognize as an error, a program failure can occur, indicating that the     
program has failed to work in this case.  Generally a program failure message   
appears on the terminal screen in such a case; a program failure may also       
generate a dump, or printout of all the information in the computer's memory at 
the time of the failure, so that the condition which caused the failure can be  
traced and corrected.                                                           
