                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
.bx 20m 51m                                                                     
                                                                                
                                                                                
                        NEW PUBLICATION SYSTEM                                  
                                                                                
                            INTRODUCTION                                        
                                                                                
                                                                                
.bx off                                                                         
<lines>                                                                         
<t>Introduction                                                                 
1) Objectives                                                                   
                                                                                
     The objective has been to design a publication data base with              
the following features-                                                         
                                                                                
      - It should be usable with only minor changes in the US, the              
        UK, and Germany.                                                        
                                                                                
      - It should be easy for the end-user to make inquiries; either            
        to get lists of publications with various attributes or to              
        get clear, detailed data about a single publication.                    
      - It should be integrable into a media buying and planning                
        system, i.e. given the details of a media buy it should be              
        able to tell whether the buy is legal, provide a detailed               
        breakout of the costs, and provide various production                   
        information about size and materials.                                   
                                                                                
2) Old vs. New                                                                  
                                                                                
     My first attempts at this were done with our current US                    
  and UK                                                                        
  structure very much in mind. At every point I stopped to think how            
  closely what I wanted to do matched our current methods and what              
  problems there might be with a conversion. I quickly came to the              
  conclusion that that was not the right approach, that to make a               
  point of repeating the mistakes of the past doesn't make any sense.           
  We have to come up with the best design we can. This stuff is                 
  difficult enough as it is.                                                    
                                                                                
    This might cause us some conversion problems, especially in the             
  US, but it has to be the right way to go.                                     
                                                                                
3) One format for all media.                                                    
                                                                                
    Though there are variations in how the different media types                
  are bought, the distinctions are not very clear and there is a lot            
  of overlap. There is very little one can point to say it belongs              
  strictly to sonm media types and not to others.                               
                                                                                
    For this reason all media types share the same input screens.               
                                                                                
4)Simplicity vs completeness                                                    
                                                                                
    In general I have worried more about coming up with internal                
structures and screens that are capable of handling the many types of           
data and the ways in which they are organized and presented than I              
have about ease of inputting the simplest cases. I hope I haven't               
erred too far in that direction.                                                
                                                                                
    The problem is that our requirement to be able to look up the               
data based on a buy description forces us to organize it in a highly            
structured way. The data appears on the rate cards in a variety of              
ways (there is a bewildering variety even in BRAD and SRDS, which               
are more structured than most rate cards) and though the screens                
are flexible as to formats and organization of tables it will                   
require a certain intelligence on the part of the inputter or                   
supervisor to figure out the best way to input it.                              
                                                                                
    Some of what I've done may seem a little abstract.                          
                                                                                
    More needs to be done in this area. I hope I've provided more               
 than just a general basis for discussion, but I certainly don't                
 hold any of it sacred.                                                         
                                                                                
5)Screens                                                                       
                                                                                
    Many of the screens are of the typical one screen to one record             
or element, fill-in-the-blanks sort.                                            
                                                                                
    There are also a lot of multi-line entry screens, typically with            
one line to one element. Some of these feature pre-listed identifiers           
like space descriptions.                                                        
                                                                                
    The only thing a little out of the ordinary is the rate table               
entry which features both vertical and horizontal scrolling.                    
                                                                                
6)Level of detail.                                                              
                                                                                
    The level of detail of the design work varies tremendously. In              
some areas (space descriptions, tables, 'specials', dates) I did                
a fair amount of work including element sketches. In other (mostly              
simpler) areas, I didn't delve nearly as deep.                                  
<t>DDS files vs. agency files                                                   
  1) There will be a DDS standard publication file on a separate                
     physical file.                                                             
                                                                                
  2) Each agency will have its own set of publication records.  They            
     can either all be put together on one physical file or separated           
     like the Medline files.                                                    
                                                                                
  3) In order to use the DDS file an agency must use the LINK                   
     screen to establish the pub for its own use. On this screen                
     the agency can provide overrides for a limited number of                   
     fields and also supply some supplemental data.                             
                                                                                
  4) OVERRIDES.                                                                 
                                                                                
        It is neither useful nor feasable to allow the agency to                
     override each individual piece of data on the DDS file. Facts              
     are facts when it comes to rates, physical dimensions, and so              
     on. If any agency thinks our data is wrong, let them call us               
     up and we'll fix it or tell them it is right the way it is.                
                                                                                
        Some data, on the other hand, is legitimately subject to                
     individual interpretation. The only things I can think of                  
     at this point are interest group and possibly media type.                  
     These are the kinds of fields we should allow overrides for.               
                                                                                
        If we are flexible about expanding the list of fields that              
     can be overridden (each will be in a separate element, so that             
     will be easy), this approach should work pretty well.                      
                                                                                
  5) SUPPLEMENTAL DATA                                                          
                                                                                
      There are some fields that are not part of the DDS file and               
    others where it makes sense to allow the agency to supplement               
    the DDS file, for instance-                                                 
                                                                                
       Folio codes       - These, I think, are the agencies                     
                           own domain.                                          
                                                                                
       Mnemonics         - Agency should be allowed to add its own.             
                                                                                
       Addresses and     - Agency may need more.                                
       contacts                                                                 
                                                                                
<h0>Dated vs dateless data                                                      
    All data of course is subject to change. For some data however              
it is important to keep track of the date on which the change                   
becomes effective. The effective date may be in the future. This                
implies that it is necessary to keep 2 (or more) versions of the                
data on file, with different effective dates.                                   
                                                                                
    This gives rise to an organizational problem- you don't want                
to have to mark each field with an effective date. The simplest                 
solution is to treat all data as 'dated'. When a new rate card                  
comes in you just copy everything in the old one (name, addresses,              
everything) and then make changes. That's not a bad approach, but its           
pretty wasteful of space. The other possibility is to keep only                 
certain data by effective date, usually organized by record, so the             
date will be in the key. That is what I tentatively propose, but                
the 'copy it all' approach deserves serious consideration.                      
                                                                                
DATED DATA                                                                      
