*          DATA SET RJSADVER   AT LEVEL 005 AS OF 03/29/90                      
                   DATASET IS RJSADVER                                          
                   -------------------                                          
         space 2                                                                
Weekly file transfer                                                            
                                                                                
  Assumptions                                                                   
     Advertiser to set up:                                                      
        1- all client, product, estimate headers for themselves and             
           client headers for the agencies. Special bit settings in             
           header determine if agency header and aor agency.                    
        2- drd schemes                                                          
        3- publication master?                                                  
        4- contracts - who maintains?                                           
                                                                                
     Anticipated processing                                                     
        1- pub table for linked pubs for agencies making buys.  Needed          
           to crossreference to advertiser                                      
        2- pub table for advertiser (created from agency maintaining            
           pubs?)                                                               
        3- from advertiser - estimate header table (prod, est, st+end           
           dates)                                                               
  ????? 4- drop all contracts from advertiser- and pull contracts from          
           from agency maintaing them.  Create set for agency and one           
           for advertiser?  Will advertiser create contracts for their          
           own use?                                                             
        5- Drop all buys that were transferred (indicator in body of            
           buy) and create two sets of buy records on the advertiser            
           file- one for the advertiser / the other for the agency              
           (client).                                                            
        6- Buys made by the advertiser are not to be dropped (should            
           anything be added).  Wouldn't these non DDS buys be made             
           under a unique client code and would be treated like any             
           other agency? Only one additional buy to be added under              
           the generic client code.                                             
                                                                                
    FIELDS TO CLEARED IN BUY RECORD (problems)                                  
        1- Standard comment  diff agencies could have same #                    
        2- Job number.   May be able to pull across but not to cobined          
           client (dups) same problem as 1-                                     
                                                                                
  OTHER PROBLEMS/ QUESTIONS                                                     
       1- Buy/pay program must be locked out of that agency                     
       2- Requests must filter (billing and billing related reports)            
       3- How to update daily when insert date is changed?  Pointers            
          are deleted and new ones created? Same logic as reconstruct?          
       4- Pol buys created dup keys on advertiser client-  NO POL?              
          --- ----                                         ------               
       5- No load if buy insert date outside of est / no pub found              
           just error list?                                                     
       6- Will the function of this feature be limited to contract              
          analysis? If not, how to get around lets say a writer request         
          where job number is requested or standard comments?                   
          <pa>                                                                  
ON-LINE MODIFICATIONS                                                           
      1- Request programs - billing, billing related, insertion orders          
                           auto rate change,                                    
      2- Pay pgm- no payments on advertiser.                                    
      3- Buy pgm- no changes to DDS buys// ok to add/change non-DDS buys        
      4- MBC- as in 3 above.                                                    
      5- Contract pgm - rate lookup into advertiser.                            
