                                                                               
         FRONT=START                                                            
BIG=SYSTEM                                                                      
BIG=UPDATES                                                                     
BIG=&                                                                           
BIG=SERVICE                                                                     
BIG=NOTICES                                                                     
BIG=4/83                                                                        
         TITLE 'Preface'                                                        
This document is intended for use by DDS employees who want to learn what      
System Updates and Service Notices are and how to produce them.  The production
instructions begin after the document has been written, and continue up to, but 
do                                                                             
not include the Post Processing Department's procedures.                       
         SPACE 3                                                                
April, 1983                                                                    
         FRONT=END                                                              
060B10                                                                        
         EJECT                                                                  
CHAPNUM=1                                                                      
         SUPER 'Introduction to System Updates and Service Notices'             
System Updates and Service Notices are documents prepared in the Administration
or Technical Publications Departments, with the help of the Client Service     
Department and the Systems Department.  Specifically, System Updates are       
memoranda sent to DDS users, notifying them of revisions that have been made to
a program since the manual explaining the system ws written.  Service Notices ar
e                                                                              
memoranda used to alert DDS users about situations at DDS that affect the daily
work flow, but are not changes to programs.                                    
         SPACE 2                                                                
Both types of memoranda used to be referred to as "Direct Lines."  The names   
were changed when the Client Service Department recognized the need to         
distinguish between Direct Lines that the users should keep until their manuals 
are                                                                            
revised, and Direct Lines which can be disguarded once the user is informed of t
he                                                                             
situation.  Even though the names of these documents have officially been change
d,                                                                             
they are frequently still referred to as Direct Lines.                         
         SPACE 2                                                                
The preparation process begins when a DDS employee (usually a Client Service   
Representative) fills out a Direct Line Control Form and routes it to the      
Administration staff or to a Technical Publications Writer.  The Direct Line   
Control Form includes the following information:                               
         SPACE 2                                                                
 ù The type of document needed (a System Update or a Service Notice);        
         SPACE 1                                                                
 ù A summary of what the document should explain;                            
         SPACE 1                                                                
 ù The names of the DDS employees who must review and sign off on the        
document before it can be released.                                          
         SPACE 2                                                                
The Writer assigned to prepare the document researches the situation, tests any
new changes made to the systems (in the case of System Updates) and prepares a 
draft of the final document on the word processor.  Once the Writer receives the
                                                                               
approval of the people listed on the Direct Line Control Form, the document is 
ready to be issued.                                                            
         EJECT                                                                  
         HEAD0 'Producing and Storing the Documents'                            
Once prepared, the Documents are transmitted from the word processors to the   
Panvalet Library, the computer library where all DDS documentation is stored   
permanently.  This is done with word processors with communications capabilities
                                                                               
(the ability to send and receive data to the computer from word processors,    
through telephone lines) and job control language, data that the computer has be
en                                                                             
programed to understand in order to produce these documents.                   
         SPACE 2                                                                
The ADDPRINT Program, a computer program specifically designed to prepare      
System Updates and Service Notices.  The ADDPRINT program works with an IBM    
3800, a lasar printer to print the documents.  The program also contains a list 
of                                                                             
the names and addresses of the users of each DDS system.  When a System Update 
or Service Notice is ready to be sent, the ADDPRINT Program not only prints a  
copy of the document for each user and DDS employee affected by the change, but
also prints the recipient's name and address at the bottom of the first page   
automatically.                                                                 
         SPACE 2                                                                
Plain yellow paper (called "1 BUS") is used to print the documents.  Since the I
BM                                                                             
3800 is a lasar printer, it has the capability to print a "flash" , or title, ac
ross the                                                                       
top of the page.  The flash will indicate whether the document is a System Updat
e                                                                              
or Service Notice.                                                             
         HEAD0 'BOOK NAMES'                                                     
In order for a document to be stored on Panvalet, the preparer must assign it a
"bookname".  The bookname is used to refer to the document when you want to    
print a copy of it directly from the computer to the IBM 3800.                 
         SPACE 2                                                                
System Updates are also categorized in "masterbooks" according to the DDS      
system to which they refer.  A masterbook is a group of booknames organized    
under an additional bookname, referred to as the masterbook.  The masterbook is
used for two purposes:                                                         
         SPACE 1                                                                
 ù To keep track of all of the System Updates that have been produced for    
a manual;                                                                    
         SPACE 1                                                                
 ù To request that an entire set of System Updates that refer to one         
system be produced.  This is done when a agency begins using that DDS        
system or needs additional manuals.   It is also done when DDS hires a       
new employee or trains an existing employee on a new system.                 
         EJECT                                                                  
CHAPNUM=2                                                                      
         SUPER 'Preparing System Updates'                                       
This section explains how to prepare System Updates after they have been stored
on a floppy disk.  In addition to step by step procedures, the following topics 
will be                                                                        
covered:                                                                       
         SPACE 2                                                                
1.Style considerations to insure uniformity with other DDS publications;      
         SPACE 1                                                                
2.Assigning booknames;                                                        
         SPACE 1                                                                
3.Using the ADDPRINT program and updating the ADDPRINT file;                  
         SPACE 1                                                                
4.System Updates for Canadian users;                                          
         SPACE 1                                                                
5.Job Control language needed for processing System Updates.                  
